 Brihatpar??arahor???stra Contents: • Ch. 1. The Creation • Ch. 2. Great Incarnations • Ch. 3. Grah Characters and Description • Ch. 4. Zodiacal R??is Described • Ch. 5. Special Lagnas • Ch. 6. The Sixteen Divisions of a R??i • Ch. 7. Divisional Considerations • Ch. 8. Drishtis of the R??is • Ch. 9. Evils at Birth • Ch. 10. Antidotes for Evils • Ch. 11. Judgement of Bhavas • Ch. 12. Effects ofTanu Bhava • Ch. 13. Effects of Dhan Bhava • Ch. 14. Effects of Sahaj Bhava • Ch. 15. Effects of Bandhu Bhava • Ch. 16. Effects of Putr Bhava • Ch. 17. Effects ofAri Bhava • Ch. 18. Effects ofYuvati Bhava • Ch. 19. Effects of Randhr Bhava • Ch. 20. Effects of Dharm Bhava • Ch. 21. Effects of Karm Bhava • Ch. 22. Effects of Labh Bhava • Ch. 23. Effects ofVyaya Bhava • Ch. 24. Effects of the Bhava Lords • Ch. 25. Effects of Non-Luminous Grahas • Ch. 26. Evaluation of Drishtis of Grahas • Ch. 27. Evaluation Of Strengths • Ch. 28. Isht and Kasht Balas • Ch. 29. Bhava Padas • Ch. 30. Upa Pad • Ch. 31. Argala, or Intervention from Grahas • Ch. 32. Karakatwas of the Grahas • Ch. 33. Effects of Karak??? • Ch. 34. Yoga Karakas • Ch. 35. NabhashYogas • Ch. 36. Many OtherYogas • Ch. 37. Candr'sYogas • Ch. 38. S?rya'sYogas • Ch. 39. RajYog • Ch. 40. Yogas For RoyalAssociation • Ch. 41. Combinations forWealth • Ch. 42. Combinations for Penury • Ch. 43. Longevity • Ch. 44. Marak Grahas • Ch. 45. Avasthas of Grahas • Ch. 46. Dashas of Grahas • Ch. 47. Effects of Dashas • Ch. 48. Distinctive Effects of the Nakshatra Dasha, or of the Dashas of the Lords (Vimshottari) of various Bhavas • Ch. 49. Effects of the Kaal Chakra • Ch. 50. Effects of the Char etc. Dashas • Ch. 51. Working out ofAntar Dashas of Grahas and R??is in Vimshottari etc. Dasha systems • Ch. 52. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of S?rya (Vimshottari) • Ch. 53. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Candr • Ch. 54. Effects ofAntar Dashas in the Dasha of Mangal • Ch. 55. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Rahu • Ch. 56. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Guru • Ch. 57. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of ?ani • Ch. 58. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Budh • Ch. 59. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Ketu • Ch. 60. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of ?ukr • Ch. 61. Effects of Pratyantar Dashas in Antar Dashas • Ch. 62. Effects of Sukshmantar Dashas in Pratyantar Dashas • Ch. 63. Effects of Prana Dashas in Sukshma Dashas • Ch. 64. Effects ofAntar Dashas in the Kala Chakr • Ch. 65. Effects of Dashas of R??is in the A??as of the Various R??is • Ch. 66. AshtakaVarg • Ch. 67. Trikon Shodhana in the AshtakaVarg • Ch. 68. Ekadhipatya Shodhana in the AshtakaVarg • Ch. 69. Pinda Sadhana in the AshtakaVarg • Ch. 70. Effects of the AshtakaVarg • Ch. 71. Determination of Longevity through the AshtakaVarg • Ch. 72. AggregationalAshtakaVargas • Ch. 73. Effects of the Rays of the Grahas • Ch. 74. Effects of the Sudarshana Chakr • Ch. 75. Characteristic Features of Panchmahapurushas • Ch. 76. Effects of the Elements • Ch. 77. Effects of the Gunas • Ch. 78. Lost Horoscopy • Ch. 79. AscetismYogas • Ch. 80. Female Horoscopy • Ch. 81. Effects of Characteristic Features of Parts ofWoman's body. • Ch. 82. Effects of Moles, Marks, Signs etc. for Men andWomen • Ch. 83. Effects of Curses in the Previous Birth • Ch. 84. Remedial Measures from the Malevolence of Grahas • Ch. 85. Inauspicious Births • Ch. 86. Remedies forAmavasya Birth • Ch. 87. Remedies from Birth on Krishna Chaturdashi • Ch. 88. Remedies from Birth in Bhadra and InauspiciousYogas • Ch. 89. Remedies from Nakshatr Birth • Ch. 90. Remedies from Sankranti Birth • Ch. 91. Remedies for Birth in Eclipses • Ch. 92. Remedies from Gandanta Birth • Ch. 93. Remedies forAbhukta Mula Birth • Ch. 94. Remedies from Jyeshtha Gandanta Birth • Ch. 95. Remedies from Birth of a Daughter afterThree Sons • Ch. 96. Remedies from Unusual Delivery • Ch. 97. Conclusion Ch. 1. The Creation I prostrate before the lotus-feet of Lord Vighneswara, offspring of Uma, the cause of destruction of sorrow, who is served by Mah?bhutas (the five great elements of the universe) etc., who has the face of a tusker and who consumes the essence of Kapittha and Jambu fruits. 1-4. Offering his obeisance to all-knowing Mah?rishi Par??ar and with folded hands, Maitreya said: “O venerable Mah?rishi, Jyotish, the supreme limb of theVedas, has three divisions, viz. Hor?, Ganita and Samhita.Among the said three divisions Hor?, or the general part of Jyotish is still more excellent. I desire to know of its glorious aspects from you. Be pleased to tell me, how this Universe is created? How does it end?What is the relationship of the animals, born on this earth, with the heavenly bodies? Please speak elaborately” 5-8. Mah?rishi Par??ar answered. O Brahmin, your query has an auspicious purpose in it for the welfare of the Universe. Praying Lord Brahma and ?r? Sarasvat?, his power (and consort) and S?rya, the leader of the Grahas and the cause of Creation, I shall proceed to narrate to you the science of Jyotish, as heard through Lord Brahma. Only good will follow the teaching of thisVedic Science to the students, who are peacefully disposed, who honour the preceptors (and elders), who speak only truth and are godfearing. Woeful forever, doubtlessly, will it be to impart knowledge of this science to an unwilling student, to a heterodox and to a crafty person. 9-12. ?r?Vishnu, who is the Lord (of all matters), who has undefiled spirit, who is endowed with the three Gunas, although he transcends the grip of Gunas (Gunatita), who is the Author of this Universe, who is glorious, who is the Cause and who is endowed with valour, has no beginning. He authored the Universe and administers it with a quarter of his power. The other three quarters of Him, filled with nectar, are knowable only to the philosophers (of maturity). The Principal Evolver, who is both perceptible and imperceptible in Vasudeva.The Imperceptible part of the Lord is endowed with dual powers, while the Perceptible with triple powers. 13-15. The three powers are ?r? Shakti (Mother Lakshmi) with Sattva-Gun, Bh? Shakti (Mother-Earth) with Rajo-Gun and N?l Shakti with Tamo-Gun. Apart from the three, the fourth kind ofVishnu, influenced by ?r? Shakti and Bhoo Shakti, assumes the form of Shankarshan with Tamo-Gun, of Pradyumna with Rajo-Gun and ofAnirudh with Sattva-Gun. 16-17. Mahatatwa, Ahamkar and Ahamkar Murti and Brahma, are born from Shankarshan, Pradyumna and Anirudh, respectively. All these three forms are endowed with all the three Gunas, with predominance of the Gun due to their origin. 18-19. Ahamkar is of three classes, i.e. with Sattvic, Rajasic andTamasic dispositions. Divine class, sensory organs and the five primordial compounds (space, air, fire, water and earth) are, respectively, from the said three Ahamkaras. 20. Lord Vishnu, coupled with ?r? Shakti, rules over the three worlds. Coupled with Bhoo Shakti, He is Brahma causing the Universe. Coupled with Neel Shakti, He is Shiva, destroying the Universe. 21-24. The Lord is in all beings and the entire Universe is in Him. All beings contain both Jivatma and Paramatm???as. Some have predominance of the former, while yet some have the latter in predominance. Paramatm??? is predominant in the Grahas, viz. S?rya etc. and Brahma, Shiva and others. Their powers, or consorts too have predominance of Paramatm???. Others have more of Jivatm???. Ch. 2. Great Incarnations 1. Maitreya: “O Mah?rishi Par??ar, are the incarnations ofVishnu, viz. ?r? Ram, ?r? Krishn etc., endowed with Jiv???? 2. Maharishi Parashar: “O Brahmin, the four incarnations, viz. Ram, Krishn, Narasimh and Varah are wholly with Paramatm???. The other incarnations (than these, out of the ten) have in them Jiv??? too. 3-4. The unborn Lord has many incarnations. He has incarnated, as the 9 (Nava) Grahas to bestow on the living beings the results due to their Karmas. He is Janardan. He assumed the auspicious form of Grahas to destroy the demons (evil forces) and sustain the divine beings. 5-7. From S?rya the incarnation of Ram, from Candr that of Krishn, from Mangal that of Narasimh, from Budh that of Buddha, from Guru that ofVaman, from ?ukr that of Parashuram, from ?ani that of Kurma (Tortoise), from Rahu that ofVarah (Pig) and from Ketu that of Meen (Fish) occurred. All other incarnations than these also are through the Grahas. The beings with more Paramatm??? are called divine beings. 8-13. The beings with more Jivatm??? are (mortal) beings. The high degree of Paramatm??? from the Grahas, viz. S?rya etc. did incarnate, as Ram, Krishn etc. After completing the mission, the Paramatm???as (of the respective) Grahas again merge (in the respective) Grahas. The Jivatma portions from the Grahas take births, as human beings and live their lives according to their Karmas and again merge in the Grahas.And at the time of Great Destruction the Grahas as well merge in Lord Vishnu.The one, who knows of all these, will become versed in the knowledge of the past, present and future. Without a knowledge of Jyotish these cannot be known. Hence, everyone should have a knowledge of Jyotish, particularly the Brahmin.The one, who, devoid of knowledge of Jyotish, blames thisVedic Science will go to the hell called ‘Raurava’ and will be reborn blind. Ch. 3. Grah Characters and Description 1. Maitreya: “O Mah?rishi, you have affectionately explained about the incarnations of Grahas. Now kindly detail their characters and dispositions. 2-3. Para?ar: “O Brahmin, listen to the account of placement of the heavenly bodies. Out of the many luminous bodies sighted in the skies some are stars, yet some are Grahas. Those, that have no movements, are the Nakshatras (asterisms). 4-6. Those are called ‘Grahas’, that move through the Nakshatras (or stellar mansions) in the zodiac. The said zodiac comprises of 27 Nakshatras commencing fromAshvini. The same area is divided in 12 parts equal to 12 ‘R??is’ commencing from Mesh. The names of the Grahas commence from S?rya. The R??i rising is known, as ‘Lagn’. Based on Lagn and the Grahas, joining and departing from each other, the native’s good and bad effects are deducted. Addition from Santhanam till Sloka 7. The names of the 27 Nakshatras are Ashvini, Bharani, Krittika, Rohini, Mrigasira, Ardra, Punarvasu, Pushya,Aslesha, Magha, Purvaphalguni, Uttaraphalguni, Hasta, Chitra, Swati, Vishaka,Anuradha, Jyeshtha, Mula, Purvashadh, Uttarashadh, Shravana, Dhanishtha, Satabhisha, Purvabhadra, Uttarabhadra, Revati. Lagn is a very important point in the horoscope. It is the R??i, that rises in the East, on the latitude of birth. The apparent rising of a R??i is due to the rotation of the earth on its own axis at a rate of motion, causing every degree of the zodiac seemingly ascend on the eastern horizon. Approximately, two hours are required for a R??i to pass via the horizon, thereby every degree taking four minutes to ascend. This duration, however, is actually dependent on the concerned latitude. Actually S?rya has no motion. His motion is an apparent one, as viewed from the rotating earth. Other Grahas, including the nodes, have varied rates of motion.The average daily motions of the Grahas, which are not, however standard, are, as follows: S?rya 1, Candr 13-15, Mangal 30-45’, Budh 65-100’, ?ukr 62-82’, Guru 5-15’, ?ani 2’, Rahu/Ketu 3’. With such different motions, a Grah forms various Drishtis with others. These Drishtis through longitudinal distances have a great deal of utility in Jyotish.This is what Maharishi Parashar suggests to be considered. 7. Details (of astronomical nature) of stars have to be understood by general rules, while I narrate to you about the effects of Grahas and R??is. 8-9. The positions of the Grahas for a given time be taken, as per Drikganit. And with the help of R??i durations, applicable to the respective places, Lagn at birth should be known. Now, I tell you about the castes, descriptions and dispositions of the Grahas. 1. Names of Grahas. The names of the nine Grahas, respectively, are S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, ?ani, Rahu and Ketu. 2. Benefics and Malefics.Among these, S?rya, ?ani, Mangal, decreasing Candr, Rahu and Ketu (the ascending and the descending nodes of Candr) are malefics, while the rest are benefics. Budh, however, is a malefic, if he joins a malefic. Addition from Santhanam till Sloka 12-13. When Candr is ahead of S?rya, but within 120, she has medium strength. Between 120 to 240 she is very auspicious,( see ‘Atishubhapred’). From 240 to 0 she is bereft of strength. This isYavanas’ view, vide P. 70 of my English Translation of Saravali. This view is, however, related to Candr’s strength, or otherwise, while waning Candr (Krishna Paksh, dark half) is a malefic and waxing Candr (Shukla Paksh, bright half) is a benefic. Should Candr beYuti with a benefic, or receiving a Drishti from a benefic, she turns a benefic, even if in a waning state.As regards Budh, we have clear instructions from Maharishi Parashar, that he becomes a malefic, if he joins a malefic. If waning Candr and Budh are together, both are benefics. 12-13. Grah governances. S?rya is the soul of all. Candr is the mind. Mangal is one’s strength. Budh is speech-giver, while Guru confers Knowledge and happiness. ?ukr governs semen (potency), while ?ani denotes grief. 14-15. Grah cabinet. Of royal status are S?rya and Candr, while Mangal is the Army chief. Prince-apparent is Budh.The ministerial Grahas are Guru and ?ukr. ?ani is a servant. Rahu and Ketu form the Grah Army. 16-17. Complexions of Grahas. S?rya is blood-red. Candr is tawny. Mangal, who is not very tall is blood-red, while Budh’s hue is akin to that of green grass. Tawny, variegated and dark are Guru, ?ukr and ?ani in their order. 1. Deities of Grahas. Fire (Agni) (?), Water (Varuna), Subrahmanya (Lord Shiva’s son, following Ganesh), MahaVishnu, Indra, Shachi Devi (the consort of Lord Indra) and Brahma (?) are the presiding deities of the 7 Grahas in their order. 2. Gender of the Grahas. Budh and ?ani are neuters. Candr and ?ukr are females, while S?rya, Mangal and Guru are males. 3. Primordial compounds. The Panchabhutas, space, air, fire, water and earth, are, respectively, governed by Guru, ?ani, Mangal, ?ukr and Budh. 4. Castes of Grahas. Guru and ?ukr are Brahmins. S?rya is a royal Grah, while Candr and Budh belong to commercial community. ?ani rules the Sudras (4th caste). 5. Sattvic Grahas are the luminaries and Guru, ?ukr and Budh are Rajasik, while Mangal and ?ani areTamasic. 6. Description of S?rya. S?rya’s eyes are honey-coloured. He has a square body. He is of clean habits, bilious, intelligent and has limited hair (on his head). 1. Description of Candr. Candr is very windy and phlegmatic. She is learned and has a round body. She has auspicious looks and sweet speech, is fickle-minded and very lustful. 2. Description of Mangal. Mangal has blood-red eyes, is fickle-minded, liberal, bilious, given to anger and has thin waist and thin physique. 3. Description of Budh. Budh is endowed with an attractive physique and the capacity to use words with many meanings. He is fond of jokes. He has a mix of all the three humours. 4. Description of Guru. Guru has a big body, tawny hair and tawny eyes, is phlegmatic, intelligent and learned in Shastras. 5. Description of ?ukr. ?ukr is charming, has a splendourous physique, is excellent, or great in disposition, has charming eyes, is a poet, is phlegmatic and windy and has curly hair. 6. Description of ?ani. ?ani has an emaciated and long physique, has tawny eyes, is windy in temperament, has big teeth, is indolent and lame and has coarse hair. 7. Description of Rahu and Ketu. Rahu has smoky appearance with a blue mix physique. He resides in forests and is horrible. He is windy in temperament and is intelligent. Ketu is akin to Rahu. 8. Primary ingredients (or Sapth Dhatus). Bones, blood, marrow, skin, fat, semen and muscles are, respectively, denoted by the Grahas: S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani. 32.Abodes of the Grahas. Temple, watery place, place of fire, sport-ground, treasure-house, bed-room and filthy ground: these are, respectively, the abodes for the seven Grahas from S?rya onward. 1. Grah periods.Ayan, Muhurta, a day (consisting day and night), Ritu, month, fortnight and year: these are the periods allotted to the Grahas from S?rya to ?ani. 2. Tastes of the Grahas. Pungent, saline, bitter, mixed, sweet, acidulous and astringent are, respectively, tastes lorded by S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani. 35-38. Strengths of Grahas. Strong in the East are Budh and Guru. S?rya and Mangal are so in the South, while ?ani is the only Grah, that derives strength in the West. Candr and ?ukr are endowed with vigour, when in the North. Again, strong during night are Candr, Mangal and ?ani, while Budh is strong during day and night. The rest (i.e. Guru, S?rya and ?ukr) are strong only in daytime. During the dark half malefics are strong. Benefics acquire strength in the bright half of the month. Malefics and benefics are, respectively, strong in Dakshinayan and Uttarayan. The Lords of the year, month, day and Hora (hour of Grah) are stronger than the other in ascending order. Again, stronger than the other in the ascending are ?ani, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, Candr and S?rya. 39-40. Related to trees. S?rya rules strong trees (i.e. trees with stout trunks), ?ani useless trees, Candr milky trees (and rubber yielding plants), Mangal bitter ones (like lemon plants), ?ukr floral plants, Guru fruitful ones and Budh fruitless ones. 41-44. Other matters. Rahu rules the outcaste, while Ketu governs mixed caste. ?ani and the nodes indicate ant-hills. Rahu denotes multi-coloured clothes and Ketu rags. Lead and blue gem belong to Rahu and Ketu. S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani in their order govern red silken, white silken, red, black silken, saffron, silken and multi-coloured robes. 45-46. Seasons of Grahas. Vasanta, Greeshma, Varsh, Sarad, Hemanta and Sisir are the six Ritus (or seasons), respectively, governed by ?ukr, Mangal, Candr, Budh, Guru and ?ani. Rahu and Ketu denote 8 months and 3 months, respectively. 47. Dhatu, Mool and Jiva Divisions. Dhatu Grahas are Rahu, Mangal, ?ani and Candr, while S?rya and ?ukr are Mula Grahas. Budh, Guru and Ketu rule Jivas. 48.Age. Out of all the Grahas ?ani is the eldest. He bestows maximum number of years in Naisargik Dasha. 49-50. Exaltation and Debilitation. For the seven Grahas, from S?rya on, the exaltation R??is are, respectively, Mesh,Vrishabh, Makar, Kanya, Kark, Meen and Tula. The deepest exaltation degrees are, respectively, 10, 3, 28, 15, 5, 27 and 20 in those R??is. And in the seventh R??i from the said exaltation R??i each Grah has its own debilitation. The same degrees of deep exaltation apply to deep fall. 51-54. Additional Dignities. In Simh the first 20 degrees are S?rya’s Mooltrikon, while the rest is his own Bhava.After the first 3 degrees of exaltation portion in Vrishabh, for Candr, the rest is her Mooltrikon. Mangal has the first 12 degrees in Mesh, as Mooltrikon with the rest therein becoming simply his own Bhava. For Budh, in Kanya the first 15 degrees are exaltation zone, the next 5 degrees Mooltrikon and the last 10 degrees are own Bhava. The first one third of Dhanu is the Mooltrikon of Guru, while the remaining part thereof is his own Bhava. ?ukr dividesTula into two halves keeping the first, as Mooltrikon and the second, as own Bhava. ?ani’s arrangements are same in Kumbh, as S?rya has in Simh. 1. Natural Relationships. Note the R??is, which are the 2nd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th and 12th from the Mooltrikon of a Grah. The Grahas ruling such R??is are its friends, apart from the Lord of its exaltation R??i. Lords other than these are its enemies. If a Grah becomes its friend as well, as its enemy (on account of the said two computations), then it is neutral, or equal. 2. Temporary Relationships. The Grah, posited in the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 10th, 11th, or the 12th from another, becomes a mutual friend. There is enmity otherwise. (This applies to a given Janm Kundali) 57-58. Compound Relationship. Should two Grahas be naturally and temporarily friendly, they become extremely friendly. Friendship on one count and neutrality on another count make them friendly. Enmity on one count combined with affinity on the other turns into equality. Enmity and neutralship cause only enmity. Should there be enmity in both manners, extreme enmity is obtained. The Jyotishi should consider these and declare horoscopic effects accordingly. 59-60. Ratio of Effects. A Grah in exaltation gives fully good effects, while in Mooltrikon it is bereft of its auspicious effects by one fourth. It is half beneficial in its own Bhava. Its beneficence is one fourth in a friendly R??i. In an equal’s R??i one eighth of auspicious disposition is useful. The good effects are nil in debilitation, or enemy’s camp. Inauspicious effects are quite reverse with reference to what is stated. 61-64. Non-luminous UpaGrahas (Sub-Grahas). Add 4 R??is 13 degrees and 20 minutes of arc to S?rya’s longitude at a given moment to get the exact position of the all inauspicious Dhoom. Reduce Dhoom from 12 R??is to arrive atVyatipat. Vyatipat is also inauspicious.Add six R??is to Vyatipat to know the position of Parivesh. He is extremely inauspicious. Deduct Parivesh from 12 R??is to arrive at the position of Chap (Indra Dhanus), who is also inauspicious. Add 16 degrees 40 minutes to Chap, which will give Ketu (UpaKetu), who is a malefic. By adding a R??i to UpaKetu, you get the original longitude of S?rya. These are the Grahas, devoid of splendour, which are malefics by nature and cause affliction. 65. Effects of Sub-Grahas. If one of these afflicts S?rya, the native’s dynasty will decline, while Candr and Lagn, respectively, associated with one of these, will destroy the longevity and wisdom. So declared Lord Brahma, the Lotus-Born. 66-69. Calculations of Gulik etc. The portions of S?rya etc. up to ?ani denote the periods of Gulik and others. Divide the day duration (of any week day) into eight equal parts. The eighth portion is Lord-less. The seven portions are distributed to the seven Grahas commencing from the Lord of the week day. Whichever portion is ruled by ?ani, will be the portion of Gulik. Similarly make the night duration into eight equal parts and distribute these, commencing from the Lord of the 5th (by) week. Here again, the eighth portion is Lord-less, while ?ani’s portion is Gulik. S?rya’s portion is Kaal, Mangal’s portion is Mrityu, Guru’s portion isYamaghantak and Budh’s portion isArdhaprahar. These durations differently apply to different places (commensurate with variable day and night durations). 70. Gulik’s Position. The degree, ascending at the time of start of Gulik’s portion (as above), will be the longitude of Gulik at a given place. Based on this longitude only, Gulik’s effects for a particular nativity be estimated. 71-74. Calculation of Pranapad. Convert the given time into Vighatis and divide the same by 15. The resultant R??i, degrees etc. be added to S?rya, if he is in a Movable R??i, which will yield Pranapad. If S?rya is in a Fixed R??i, add 240 degrees additionally and, if in a Dual R??i, add 120 degrees in furtherance to get Pranapad.The birth will be auspicious, if Pranapad falls in the 2nd, 5th, 9th, 4th, 10th, or 11th from the natal Lagn. In other Bhavas Pranapad indicates an inauspicious birth. Notes. Ardhaprahar, Yamaghantak, Mrityu, Kaal and Gulik are the 5 KaalVelas, suggested by Maharishi Parashar. The day duration, according to altitude, is divided into eight equal parts. The eighth portion is unlorded. The first portion is allotted to the weekday Lord. Other portions follow in the order of weekday Lords. We consider 5 portions of Grahas, ignoring that of Candr and ?ukr. The portions of S?rya, Mangal, Budh, Guru and ?ani are, respectively, called Kaal, Mrityu, Ardhaprahar, Yamaghantak and Gulik. In the case of night the durations, or 1/8th parts are allotted in a different order. The first portion goes to the Grah, ruling the 5th weekday Lord, counted from the day in question. The others follow in the usual order. Here again, the 8th part is Lord-less. The portions of Grahas from Kaal to Gulik are the same in nomenclature in the night also. Keeranuru NataRaja of Jatakalankaram (Tamil version) gives R??is of dignities for these UpaGrahas and Gulik etc. (UpaGrah & Gulik etc.: Exaltation, Debilitation, Swakshetra (own R??i)) Dhoom: Simh, Kumbh, Makar;Vyatipat:Vrischik,Vrishabh, Mithun; Parivesh: Mithun, Dhanu, Dhanu; Indrachap: Dhanu, Mithun, Kark; UpaKetu: Kumbh, Simh, Kark; Gulik: -, -, Kumbh;Yamaghantak: -, -, Dhanu;Ardhaprahar: -, -, Mithun; Kaal: -, -, Makar; Mrityu: -, -, Vrischik. From S?rya to ?ani no one is exalted in the above-mentioned exaltation R??is, nor debilitated in the above-mentioned debilitation R??is. Out of the 5 KaalVelas, viz. Gulik etc., four except Kaal (related to S?rya) have their own R??i system in the respective R??is, ruled by their fathers. Gulik, son of ?ani, has Kumbh, as his own Bhava. Guru’s son, Yamaghantak, has it in Dhanu. Ardhaprahar, Budh’s son, is in own R??i, if in Mithun. Mrityu, son of Mangal, hasVrischik, as own Bhava. It is not known, why Kaal, a son of S?rya shifted to Makar, a R??i of his brother (?ani), leaving his father’s Simh. Obviously, ?ani has given his Mooltrikon to his son Gulik, while he gave Makar (a secondary R??i) to his ‘brother’ Kaal. Ch. 4. Zodiacal R??is Described 1-2. Importance of Hora. The word Hora is derived fromAhoratr after dropping the first and last syllables. Thus Hora (Lagnas) remains in between Ahoratr (i.e. day and night) and after knowing Hora the good and bad effects of a native be known. ?r?Vishnu, the Invisible isTime personified. His limbs are the 12 R??is, commencing from Mesh. 3. Names of R??is. The 12 R??is of the zodiac in order are Mesh,Vrishabh, Mithun, Kark, Simh, Kanya, Tula, Vrischik, Dhanu, Makar, Kumbh and Meen. 4-4?. Limbs of Kaal Purush. Kaal Purush (orTime personified) has his limbs, as under with reference to the 12 R??is, respectively: Head, face, arms, heart, stomach, hip, space below navel, privities, thighs, knees, ankles and feet. 5-5?. Classification of R??is. Movable, Fixed and Dual are the names given to the 12 R??is in order. These are again known, as malefic and benefic, successively. Similarly are male and female. Mesh, Simh and Dhanu are bilious. Vrishabh, Kanya and Makar are windy. Mithun, Tula and Kumbh are mixed, while the rest are phlegmatic. 6-7. Mesh described. The Mesh is blood-red in complexion. lt has a prominent (big) physique. It is a quadruped R??i and strong during night. It denotes courage. It resides in the East and is related to kings. It wanders in hills and predominates in Rajo-Gun (the second of the three constituent qualities and the cause of great activity in living beings). It rises with its back (a Prishtodaya R??i) and is fiery. Its ruler is Mangal. 8. Vrishabh described.Vrishabh’s complexion is white and it is lorded by ?ukr. It is long and is a quadruped R??i. It has strength in night and resides in the South. It represents villages and businessmen. An earthy R??i, Vrishabh rises with its back. 9-9?. Mithun described. The R??i Mithun rises with its head and represents a male and a female, holding a mace and lute. It lives in the West and is an airy R??i. It is a biped R??i as well and is strong in nights. It lives in villages and is windy in temperament. It has an even body with a green (grass like) hue. Its ruler is Budh. 10-11. Kark described.The R??i Kark is pale-red. It resorts to forests and represents Brahmins. It is strong in nights. It has many feet (i.e. it is a centipede R??i) and has a bulky body. It is Sattvic in disposition (seen in gods) and it is a watery R??i. It rises with its back and is ruled by Candr. 12. Simh described. Simh is ruled by S?rya and is Sattvic. It is a quadruped R??i and a royal R??i. It resorts to forests and rises with its head. It has a large, white body. It resides in the East and is strong during daytime. 13-14. Kanya described. This R??i is a hill-resorter and is strong in daytime. It rises with its head and has a medium build. It is a biped R??i and resides in the South. It has grains and fire in its hands. It belongs to the business community and is variegated. It relates to hurricanes (‘Prabharanjani’). It is a Virgin and isTamasic (a disposition of demons). Its ruler is Budh. 15-16?. Tula described. Tula is a Seershodaya R??i, rising with its head;Tula is strong in daytime. It is black in complexion and is predominant with Rajo-Gun. It relates to the western direction and resorts to land. It is destructive, or mischievous (‘Dhatin’). It represents Sudras, or the 4th Varna. It has a medium build physique and is a biped R??i. Its Lord is ?ukr. Vrischik described. Vrischik has a slender physique and is a centipede R??i. It denotes Brahmins and resides in holes. Its direction is North and it is strong in daytime. It is reddish-brown and resorts to water and land. It has a hairy physique and is very sharp (or passionate). Mangal is its ruler. 17-18?. Dhanu described. The R??i Dhanu rises with its head and is lorded by Guru. It is a Sattvic R??i and is tawny in hue. It has strength in night and is fiery. A royal R??i, Dhanu is biped in first half. Its second half is quadruped. It has an even build and adores an arch. It resides in the East, resorts to land and is splendourous. 19-20. Makar described. Makar is lorded by ?ani and has predominance ofTamo-Gun (a disposition, seen in demons). It is an earthy R??i and represents the southern direction. It is strong in nights and rises with back. It has a large body. Its complexion is variegated and it resorts to both forests and lands. Its first half is quadruped and its second half footless, moving in water. 21-21?. Kumbh described. The R??i Kumbh represents a man holding a pot. Its complexion is deep-brown. It has medium build and is a biped R??i. It is very strong in daytime. It resorts to deep water and is airy. It rises with its head and isTamasic. It rules Sudras, the 4th Varna and the West. Its Lord is ?ani, S?rya’s offspring. 22-24. Meen described. Meen resembles a pair of fish, one tailed with the head of the other. This R??i is strong at night. It is a watery R??i and is predominant with Sattva-Gun. It denotes resoluteness and is a water-resorter. It is footless and has a medium build. It rules the North and rises with both head and back. It is ruled by Guru. This is how the twelve R??is, each of 30 degrees extent, are described to evaluate gross and specific effects. 25-30. Nishek Lagn. O excellent of Brahmins, now is a step explained to arrive at the Nishek Lagn, when the natal Lagn is known. Note the angular distance between ?ani and Mandi (Gulik). Add this to the difference between the Lagn Bhava (Madhya, or cusp) and the 9th Bhava (cusp). The resultant product in R??is, degrees etc. will represent the months, days etc., that elapsed between Nishek and birth. At birth, if Lagn Lord is in the invisible half (i.e. from Lagn cusp to descendental cusp), add the degrees etc., Candr moved in the particular R??i, occupied by her, to the above-mentioned product. Then Lagn at Nishek can be worked out and the good and bad, experienced by the native in the womb, can be guessed. One can also guess with the help of Nishek Lagn effects, like longevity, death etc. of the parents. Ch. 5. Special Lagnas 1. Oh excellent of the Brahmins, I explain below again some special Lagnas, viz. Bhava Lagn, Hora Lagn and Ghati Lagn. 2-3. Bhava Lagn. From sunrise to the time of birth every 5 Ghatis (or 120 minutes) constitute one Bhava Lagn. Divide the time of birth (in Ghatis, Vighatis etc.) from sunrise by 5 and add the quotient etc. to S?rya’s longitude, as at sunrise. This is called Bhava Lagn. 4-5. Hora Lagn. Again from sunrise till the time of birth Hora Lagn repeats itself every 2? Ghatis (i. e. 60 minutes). Divide the time past up to birth from sunrise by 2? and add the quotient etc. in R??is, degrees and so on to the longitude of S?rya, as at the sunrise. This will yield Hora Lagn in R??i, degrees etc. 6-8. Ghati Lagn (Ghatik Lagn). Now listen to the method of working out Ghati Lagn. This Lagn changes along with every Ghati (24 minutes) from the sunrise. Note birth time in Ghatis and Vighatis. Consider the number of Ghatis past, as number of R??is, or Ghati Lagnas. The Vighatis be divided by 2 to arrive at degrees and minutes of arc, past in the said Ghati Lagn. The product so arrived in R??is, degrees and minutes be added to S?rya’s longitude, as at sunrise, to get the exact location of Ghati Lagn. So say Maharishis, like Narada. 9. Use of Special Lagnas. Keeping the Grahas at birth, as it is, prepare various Bhava Kundalis with respect to each special Lagn and analyze, as done for the natal Lagn. 10-13?. Varnad Dasha. I now detailVarnad Dasha, just by knowing which one can deal with the longevity of a native. If the natal Lagn is an odd R??i, count directly from Mesh to natal Lagn. If the natal Lagn is an even R??i, count from Meen to the natal Lagn in the reverse order. Similarly, if the Hora Lagn is an odd one, count from Mesh to Hora Lagn in direct order. If the Hora Lagn is an even one, count from Meen to Hora Lagn in the reverse order. If both the products are odd R??is, or even R??is, then add both the figures. If one is odd and the other is even, then know the difference between the two products. If the latest product in this process is an odd one, count so many R??is from Mesh in a direct manner; if an even one, count so many R??is from Meen in reverse order. The R??i so known will be the Varnad for Lagn. 14-15. Effects ofVarnad. Now listen to the use of the above. Out of the two, viz. natal Lagn and Hora Lagn, whichever is stronger, from there Varnad starts. If the natal Lagn is an odd R??i, the counting of Dashas is clockwise, otherwise anticlockwise. Lagn Dasha years will equal the number of R??is, intervening between the natal Lagn and Varnad. Similarly for other Bhavas. 16-20. Effects ofVarnad (cont.). Should a Kon from Lagn’sVarnad be occupied, or drishtied by a malefic, the native will live only up to the Dasha of the said R??i. Just, as the Rudra Grah in Sool Dasha is capable of causing evils, the above-mentioned Grahas related to Varnad’s Kon be treated. The Varnad Lagn be considered, as natal Lagn, while the 7th fromVarnad will denote the longevity of the spouse, the 11th longevity of elder brothers and sisters, the 3rd longevity of younger brothers and sisters, the 5th the longevity of sons, the 4th longevity of mother and the 9th longevity of father. The Dasha of the Sool R??i will inflict greater evils. 21-24. Effects ofVarnad (cont.). Similar assessments be made with reference to the Varnad of each Bhava, commencing the first, and the evils and goods due to a nativity be known. TheseVarnad Dashas are only for Bhavas (R??is) and not their occupants. The sub period of each Dasha will be one twelfth of the Dasha and the order will also be clockwise, or anti-clockwise, as explained earlier. The natal Lagn is to be calculated according to birth place, while Bhava Lagn, Hora Lagn etc. are common to all places. Ch. 6. The Sixteen Divisions of a R??i 1. O Mah?rishi Par??ar, I have known from you about the Grahas, R??is and their descriptions. I desire to know the details of various divisions of a R??i, will you please narrate. 2-4. Names of the 16 Vargas. Lord Brahma has described 16 kinds ofVargas (Divisions) for each R??i. Listen to those.The names are R??i, Hor?, Dreshkan, Chaturth???, Sapt???, Nav???, Dash???, Dvadash???, Shodash???, Vimsh???, Chaturvimsh???, Saptavimsh???,Trimsh???, Khaved???,Akshaved??? and Shashti???. 5-6. R??i and Hor?. The R??i, owned by a Grah, is called its Kshetra. The first half of an odd R??i is the Hora, ruled by S?rya. While the second half is the Hora of Candr. The reverse is true in the case of an even R??i. Half of a R??i is called Hora. These are totally 24, counted from Mesh and repeated twice (at the rate of 12) in the whole of the zodiac. 7-8. Dreshkan. One third of a R??i is called Dreshkan.These are totally 36, counted from Mesh, repeating thrice at the rate of 12 per round. The 1st, 5th and the 9th R??is from a R??i are its three Dreshkanas and are, respectively, lorded by Narada,Agasthya and Durvash. 9. Chaturth???. The Lords of the 4 Kendras from a R??i are the rulers of respective Chaturth??? of a R??i, commencing from Mesh. Each Chaturth??? is one fourth of a R??i. The deities, respectively, are Sanak, Sanand, Kumar and Sanatan. 10-11. Sapt???. The Sapt??? (one seventh of a R??i) counting commences from the same R??i in the case of an odd R??i. It is from the seventh R??i thereof, while an even R??i is considered. The names of the seven divisions in odd R??is are Kshaar Ksheer, Dadhi, Ghrith, Ikshu, Ras, Madhya and Suddh Jal. These designations are reversed for an even R??i. 12. Nav???. The Nav??? calculation are for a Movable R??i from there itself, for a Fixed R??i from the 9th thereof and for a Dual R??i from the 5th thereof. They go by designations Deva (divine), Manushya (human) and Rakshasa (devilish) in a successive and repetitive order for a Movable R??i. (Manushya, Rakshasa and Deva are the order for a Fixed R??i, while Rakshasa, Manushya and Deva are a Dual R??i’s order) 13-14. Dash???. Starting from the same R??i for an odd R??i and from the 9th with reference to an even R??i, the 10 Dash???as, each of 3 degrees, are reckoned.These are presided over by the ten rulers of the cardinal directions, viz. Indra, Agni, Yama, Rakshasa,Varuna,Vayu, Kuber, Isan, Brahma and Ananth in case of an odd R??i. It is in the reverse order, that these presiding deities are reckoned, when an even R??i is given. 1. Dvadash???. The reckoning of the Dvadash??? (one twelfth of a R??i, or 2? degrees each) commences from the same R??i. In each R??i the presidentship repeats thrice in the order of Ganesh,Ashvini Kumar,Yama and Sarpa for the 12 Dvadash???as. 1. Shodash??? (or Kal???). Starting from Mesh for a Movable R??i, from Simh for a Fixed R??i and from Dhanu for a Dual R??i, the 16 Shodash???as (16th part of a R??i, i.e. of 1°52’30”) are regularly distributed. The presiding deities of these repeat in the order Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva and S?rya four times in the case of an odd R??i. It is reverse in the case of an even R??i, that these ruling deities are understood. 17-21. Vimsh???. From Mesh for a Movable R??i, from Dhanu for a Fixed R??i and from Simh for a Common R??i: this is how the calculations ofVimsh???as (1/20th of a R??i, or 1°30’ each) are to commence.The presiding deities of the 20 Vimsh???as in an odd R??i are, respectively: Kali, Gauri, Jaya, Lakshmi,Vijaya, Vimal, Sati, Tara, Jvalamukhi, Sveta, Lalita, Bagalamukhi, Pratyangir, Shachi, Raudri, Bhavani, Varad, Jaya,Tripura and Sumukhi. In an even R??i these 20 deities, respectively, are Daya, Megha, Chinnasi, Pisachini, Dhumavathi, Matangi, Bal, Bhadr,Arun, Anal, Pingal, Chuchchuk, Ghora, Vaarahi, Vaishnavi, Sita, Bhuvanesvari, Bhairavi, Mangal and Aparajit. 22-23. Chaturvimsh???. The Chaturvimsh??? (1/24th part of a R??i, or 1°15’ each) distribution commences from Simh and Kark, respectively, for an odd and an even R??i. In the case of an odd R??i the ruling deities repeat twice in the order of Skand, Parusdhar, Anal, Vishwakarma, Bhag, Mitr, Maya, Antaka, Vrisha-Dwaja, Govinda, Madan and Bhima. Reverse these from Bhima twice to know the deities for the Chaturvimsh??? in an even R??i. 24-26. Saptavimsh??? (Nakshatr???, or Bh???). The Saptavimsh??? Lords are, respectively, the presiding deities of the 27 Nakshatras, as under: Dastra (Ashvini Kumar), Yama, Agni, Brahma, Candr, Isa,Adhiti, Jiva, Ahi, Pitar, Bhag,Aryama, S?rya, Tvasht, Marut, Chakragni, Mitr,Vasava, Rakshasa,Varuna,Vishwadeva, Govinda, Vasu, Varuna, Ajap, Ahirbuddhnya and Pushya. These are for an odd R??is. Count these deities in a reverse order for an even R??i. The Saptavimsh??? distribution commences from Mesh and other Movable R??is for all the 12 R??is. 27-28. Trimsh???. The Trimsh??? Lords for an odd R??i are Mangal, ?ani, Guru, Budh and ?ukr. Each of them in order rules 5, 5, 8, 7 and 5 degrees. The deities, ruling over the Trimsh???as, are, respectively, Agni, Vayu, Indra, Kuber and Varuna. In the case of an even R??i the quantum ofTrimsh???, Grah lordship and deities get reversed. 29-30. Khaved??? (or Chatvarimsh???, 1/40th part of a R??i). For odd R??is count from Mesh and for an even R??i fromTula in respect of Khaved???as (each of 45’ of arc). Vishnu, Candr, Marichi, Tvasht, Dhata, Shiva, Ravi, Yama, Yaksh, Gandharv, Kaal and Varuna repeat successively, as presiding deities, in the same order for all R??is. 31-32. Akshaved??? (1/45th part of a R??i). Mesh, Simh and Dhanu are the R??is, from which the distributions, respectively, commence for Movable, Immovable and Common R??is. In Movable R??is Brahma, Shiva and Vishnu; in Immovable R??is Shiva, Vishnu and Brahma and in Common R??isVishnu, Brahma and Shiva repeat 15 times the presidentship over theseAkshaved???as. 33-41. Shashti??? (1/60th part of a R??i, or half a degree each). To calculate the Shashti??? Lord ignore the R??i position of a Grah and take the degrees etc. it traversed in that R??i. Multiply that figure by 2 and divide the degrees by 12. Add 1 to the remainder, which will indicate the R??i, in which the Shashti??? falls. The Lord of that R??i is the Grah, ruling the said Shashti???. In odd R??is the names of Shashti???as are 1. Ghora, 2. Rakshasa, 3. Deva, 4. Kuber, 5. Yaksh, 6. Kindar, 7. Bhrasht, 8. Kulaghna, 9. Garal, 10. Vahni, 11. Maya, 12. Purishak, 13. Apampathi, 14. Marutwan, 15. Kaal, 16. Sarpa, 17. Amrit, 18. Indu, 19. Mridu, 20. Komal, 21. Heramba, 22. Brahma, 23. Vishnu, 24. Maheshwara, 25. Deva, 26. Ardr, 27. Kalinas, 28. Kshitees, 29. Kamalakar, 30. Gulik, 31. Mrityu, 32. Kaal, 33. Davagni, 34. Ghora, 35. Yama, 36 Kantak, 37. Suddh, 38.Amrit, 39. PurnaCandr, 40. Vishadagdha, 41. Kulanas, 42. Vamshakshaya, 43. Utpat, 44. Kaal, 45. Saumya, 46. Komal, 47. Sheetal, 48. Karaladamshtr, 49. Candramukhi, 50. Praveen, 51. Kaalpavak, 52. Dhannayudh, 53. Nirmal, 54. Saumya, 55. Krur, 56. Atisheetal, 57. Amrit, 58. Payodhi, 59. Brahman, 60. CandraRekha (InduRekha). The reverse is the order for even R??is in so much, as these names are cased. Grahas in benefic Shashti???as produce auspicious, while the opposite is true in case of Grahas in malefic Shashti???as. 42-53. Varg Classification. Maitreya, explained now are the sum effects of classifications of different divisions (orVargas, so far narrated). These are four kinds, viz. Shad Varg, Sapth Varg, Dasha Varg and ShodashaVarg. In the ShadVarg classification the Varg designations are Kimshuk, Vyanjan, Chamar, Chatr and Kundal, according to a Grah being in 2 to 6 combinations of good Vargas. Next is the Sapth Varg, in which these classifications continue in the same manner up to six combinations of good Vargas, the 7th additionalVarg getting classified, as Mukut. In the DashaVarg scheme the designations commence from Parijata etc., such as 2 good Vargas - Parijatha, 3 Uttama, 4 Gopur, 5 Simhasan, 6 Paravata, 7 Devaloka, 8 Brahmaloka, 9 Sakravahana and 10 Vargas - Shridham. In the Shodasha Varg scheme the combinations ofVargas go with designations thus: two good Vargas - Bhedak, 3 Kusum, 4 Nagapushpa, 5 Kanduk, 6 Kerala, 7 Kalpa Vriksha, 8 Chandan Vana, 9 PurnaCandr, 10 Uchchaisrava, 11 Dhanvantari, 12 S?ryakant, 13 Vidrum, 14 Chakra-Simhasan, 15 Golok and 16 Vargas ?r?Vallabh. In these divisions the divisions, falling in the Grah’s exaltation R??i, Mooltrikon R??i, own R??i and the R??is, owned by the Lord of a Kendra from the Arudha Lagn, are all to be considered (as good Vargas). The divisions of a combust Grah, defeated Grah, weak Grah and a Grah in bad Avasthas, like Sayan, be all ignored to be auspicious, for these destroy the good Yogas. Ch. 7. Divisional Considerations 1-8. Use of the 16 Divisions. Now I will explain the use of these sixteen divisions. The physique from Lagn, wealth from Hora, happiness through co-born from Dreshkan, fortunes from Chaturth???, sons and grandsons from Sapt???, spouse from Nav???, power (and position) from Dash???, parents from Dvadash???, benefits and adversities through conveyances from Shodash???, worship fromVimsh???, learning from Chaturvimsh???, strength and weakness from Saptavimsh???, evil effects from Trimsh???, auspicious and inauspicious effects from Khaved??? and all indications from both Akshaved??? and Shashti???: these are the considerations to be made through the respective Vargas. The Bhava, whose Lord is in a malefic Shashti???, will diminish; so say Garga and others. The Bhava, whose Lord is in a benefic Shodash???, flourish. This is how the 16 Vargas are to be evaluated. 9-12. After assessing the 20 point strength of the ascending degree, of other Bhavas and of the Grahas, the good and bad effects be declared. I explain below the method of knowing the Vimsopak strength (20 point strength), just by knowing which an idea of the results of actions of this birth and of former birth will clearly emerge. The Grahas from S?rya on get full strength, when in exaltation, or in own R??i and are bereft of strength, when in the 7th (from exaltation). In between the strength be known by the rule of three process. In the case of a Grah, owning two R??is, distinction of placement in odd/even R??i identical with own R??i be made. 13-16. Hor?, Dreshkan and Trimsh??? Effects. Guru, S?rya and Mangal give (pronounced) effects in the Hora of S?rya. Candr, ?ukr and ?ani do so, when in Candr’s Horas; Budh is effective in both the Horas. In the case of an even R??i the Hora of Candr will be powerful in effects, while S?rya’s Hora in an odd R??i will be so. Full, medium and nil will be the effects, respectively, in the beginning middle and the end of a Hora. Similar applications be made for a Dreshkan, Tury???, Nav??? etc.As forTrimsh??? effects, S?rya is akin to Mangal and Candr is akin to ?ukr. The effects, applicable to R??i, will apply to Trimsh???. 17-19. Vimshopak Bal. The Shad Vargas consist of R??i, Hora, Dreshkan, Nav???, Dvadash??? andTrimsh???. The full Bal for each of the divisions, respectively, are 6, 2, 4, 5, 2 and 1. This is the Vimshopak Bal, relating to ShadVarg division. Adding the Sapt??? to the Shad Vargas, we get SaptVarg, the Vimshopak Bal for which is 5, 2, 3, 2?, 4?, 2 and 1. These are gross strengths, while subtle ones should be understood by exact positions. 20.Add Dash???, Shodash??? and Shashti??? to the said SaptVarg Divisions to get the scheme of Dasha Varg.The Vimshopak Bal in this context is 3 for R??i, 5 for Shashti??? and for the other 8 divisions 1? each. 21-25. When the 16 divisions (Shodash Varg Scheme) are considered together, the Vimshopak score goes thus: Hora 1, Trims??? 1, Dreshkan 1, Shodash??? 2, Nav??? 3, R??i 3?, Shashti??? 4 and the rest of the nine divisions each a half. The Vimshopak Bal remains as 20, only when the Grah is in own BhavaVargas. Otherwise, the total strength from 20 declines to 18 in PramuditVargas, to 15 in ShantVargas, to 10 in Svasth divisions, to 7 in DuhkhitVargas and to 5 in KhalVargas. (These figures are called Varg Vishwa) 26-27. Vimshopak Proportional Evaluation. Multiply the figure due to full strength for the division by the VargVishwa and divide by 20 to get the exact strength of the Grah. If the total is below 5, the Grah will not be capable of giving auspicious results. If it is above 5, but below 10, the Grah will yield some good effects. Later on up to 15 it is indicative of mediocre effect.A Grah with above 15 will yield wholly favourable effects. 28-29. Other Sources of Strength. Maitreya, there are other kinds of sources, as I explain below. Grahas in the 7th from S?rya will be fully effective. One with an identical longitude in comparison to S?rya’s will destroy the good effects. Rule of three process be applied to the Grah in between these positions. 30-32. Dasha effects with Vimshopak Bal. Maitreya, after assessing the Vimshopak Bal through the various divisions, the rising and setting of the Grahas be considered.The Vimshopak Bal is classified under Purna, AtiPurna, Madhya,AtiMadhya, Heen, AtiHeen, Swalpa and AtiSwalp.Thus should be classified theVimshopak Bal and the Dasha period results declared accordingly. 33-36. Kendras, Konas etc. defined. O Maitreya, listen to other matters, which I am explaining. The Kendras are specially known, as Lagn (the ascendent), Bandhu Bhava, Yuvati Bhava (the descendant) and Karm Bhava (mid-heaven). Dhan, Putr, Randhr and Labh Bhava are Panapharas (succedents), while Sahaj, Ari, Dharm and Vyaya Bhava are called Apoklimas (cadents). Putr and Dharm Bhava are known by the name Kon (or trine). Evil Bhavas, or Dusthan Bhavas are Ari, Randhr and Vyaya Bhava. Chaturasras are Bandhu and Randhr Bhava. Sahaj, Ari, Karm and Labh Bhava are Upachaya Bhavas. 37-38. Names of Bhavas. Thanu, Dhan, Sahaj, Bandhu, Putr, Ari, Yuvati, Randhr, Dharm, Karma, Labh and Vyaya are in order the names of Bhavas. I explained these briefly and leave it to you to grasp more, according to your intelligence. As delivered by Lord Brahma, some further information is added thus (i.e. in the following verses). 39-43. Indications from Bhavas. Dharm Bhava and the 9th from S?rya deal with one’s father. Whatever effects are to be known from the Karm and Labh Bhava, be also known from similar Bhavas, counted from S?rya. Whatever results are to be known from Bandhu, Tanu, Dhan, Labh and Dharm should also be known from the 4th of Candr, from Kark R??i itself and from the 2nd, 11th and 9th from Candr, respectively. Whatever has to be known through Sahaj Bhava, be also analyzed through the 3rd from Mangal. The 6th from Budh be also considered in regard to indications, derivable fromAri Bhava.The 5th from Guru, the 7th from ?ukr and both the 8th and 12th from ?ani stand for consideration, respectively, in respect of offspring, spouse and death. The Lord of the Bhava is equally important, when estimating the indications of a particular Bhava. Ch. 8. Drishtis of the R??is 1-3. R??i Drishtis. O Maitreya, now detailed are the Drishtis, emanating from the R??i Mesh etc. Every Movable R??i drishties the 3 Fixed R??is, leaving the Fixed R??i adjacent to it. Every Fixed R??i gives Drishti to the 3 Movable R??is, barring the adjacent Movable R??i. And a Common R??i gives a Drishti to the other three Common R??is. The Grah in a R??i gives the same Drishti, as the R??i (in which the Grah is) does. 4-5. Dristhis of the Grahas.A Grah in a Movable R??i gives a Drishti to the other 3 Fixed R??is, leaving the Fixed R??i next to it. A Grah in a Fixed R??i does not give a Drishti to the next Movable R??i, but the remaining 3 Movable R??is. The one in a Common R??i gives a Drishti to the remaining 3 Common R??is. Simultaneously a Grah in the R??i, that receives a Drishti, is also subjected to the Drishti concerned. 6-9. Diagram of Dristhis. As depicted by Lord Brahma, I now narrate the diagram of Drishtis, so that Drishtis are easily understood by a mere sight of the diagram. Draw a square, or a circle marking the 8 directions (4 corners and 4 quarters thereof). Mark the zodiacal R??is, as under: Mesh and Vrishabh in East, Mithun in the North-East, Kark and Simh in the North, Kanya in the North-West, Tula andVrischik in the West, Dhanu in the South-West, Makar and Kumbh in the South and Meen in the South-East. Addition Santhanam till Ch. 9. The Drishtis (as per the earlier Slokas) can be shown in a square diagram, or circular diagram (as per convenience). Ch. 9. Evils at Birth 1. O Brahmin, first of all estimate the evils and checking factors thereof through Lagn and then declare the effects of the 12 Bhavas. 1. Evils, causing premature end, exist up to the 24th year of one’s age.As such, no definite calculation of life span should be made till such year of age. 3-6. Short-life Combinations (up to Sloka 23). Should Candr be in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava and receives a Drishti from a malefic, the child will die soon. If in the process there be a Drishti from a benefic, it may live up to 8. If a benefic is retrograde in Ari, Randhr, or Vyaya Bhava, receiving a Drishti from a malefic, death will occur within a month of birth. This is true, only when Lagn is not occupied by a benefic. Should Putr Bhava be occupied by ?ani, Mangal and S?rya jointly, (early) death of mother and brother will come to pass. Mangal, placed in Tanu, or in Randhr Bhava and be yuti with ?ani, or S?rya, or receiving a Drishti from a malefic, being bereft of a Drishti from a benefic, will prove a source of (immediate) death. 7-11. If ?ani and Mangal give a Drishti to Lagn, as the luminaries are yuti with Rahu (elsewhere), the child will live a fortnight. Immediate death of the child along with its mother will occur, if ?ani is in Karm Bhava, Candr in Ari Bhava and Mangal in Yuvati Bhava. One will immediately go to the abode ofYama, if ?ani is in Tanu Bhava, while Candr and Guru are in their order in Randhr and Sahaj Bhava. Only a month will be the span of one’s life, who had S?rya in Dharm Bhava, Mangal in Yuvati Bhava and Guru and ?ukr in Labh Bhava.All Grahas (any Grah) in Vyaya Bhava will be the source of a short life, specifically the luminaries, ?ukr and Rahu. But the Drishti of these four Grahas (on Vyaya Bhava) will counteract such evils. 1. Candr is capable of causing early end, if she is with a malefic in Yuvati, Randhr, or Tanu Bhava and unrelated to a benefic. 2. Early death will come to pass, if there be a birth in the morning, or evening junctions, or in a Hora, ruled by Candr, or in Gandanta, while Candr and malefics occupy Kendras from Lagn. 3. Definition of Sandhya. 3 Ghatis before the sight of the semi disc (half) of the rising S?rya and a similar duration, following S?rya’s set, are called, as morning twilight and evening twilight, respectively. 4. Early Death. Should all the malefics be in the oriental half, while benefics are in the occidental half, early death of one born in Vrischik, will follow. In this case there is no need of any rethinking. 5. Malefic in Vyaya and Ari Bhava, or in Randhr and Dhan Bhava, while Lagn is hemmed between other malefics, will bring early death. 1. Malefics, occupying Tanu andYuvati Bhava, while Candr is yuti with a malefic with no relief from a benefic, will also cause premature death. 2. Early death will be inflicted on the native, if decreasing Candr is in Tanu Bhava, while malefics capture Randhr Bhava and a Kendra. There is no doubt about that. 3. Candr in Tanu, Randhr,Vyaya, orYuvati Bhava and hemmed between malefics will confer premature death. 4. Should Candr be in Tanu Bhava, hemmed between malefics, while Yuvati, or Randhr Bhava has a malefic in it, he will face immediate death along with his mother. 5. Should ?ani, S?rya and Mangal be in Vyaya, Dharm and Randhr Bhava without Drishti from a benefic, the child will face instant death. 6. With a malefic in Yuvati Bhava, or in the rising Dreshkan, while decreasing Candr is in Tanu Bhava, death be experienced early. 7. The life span of the child will be either 2 months, or 6 months only, if all Grahas devoid of strength are relegated to Apoklima Bhavas. 8. Evils to Mother (up to Sloka 33). The mother of the native will incur evils (will die soon), if Candr at birth receives a Drishti from three malefics. Benefics, giving a Drishti to Candr, will bring good to the mother. 9. Should Dhan Bhava be occupied by Rahu, Budh, ?ukr, S?rya and ?ani, the child’s birth has been after its father’s death, while even the mother will face early death. 10. If Candr is in the 7th, or the 8th from a malefic, be herself with a malefic and receives a Drishti from a strong malefic, predict mothers end to be early. 11. The child will not live on mother’s milk, but on that of she-goat, if S?rya is exalted, or debilitated in Yuvati Bhava. 12. Should a malefic be in the 4th, identical with an inimical R??i, counted from Candr, while there is no benefic in a Kendra, the child will lose its mother in a premature manner. 13. Malefics in Ari andVyaya Bhava will bring evils to mother. The child’s father will receive similar effects, if Bandhu and Karm Bhava are captured by malefics. 1. Budh in Dhan Bhava, while malefics occupyTanu and Vyaya Bhava: thisYoga will destroy the entire family. 2. Guru, ?ani and Rahu, respectively, posited in Tanu, Dhan and Sahaj Bhava will cause mother’s death early. 3. Doubtlessly the mother will give up the child, if it has malefics in Konas, counted from the decreasing Candr. No benefic shall be yuti with the said malefics. 4. If Mangal and ?ani are together in a Kendra with reference to Candr and occupy one and the same Nav???, the child will have two mothers. Yet it will be short-lived. 5. Evil to Father (up to Sloka 42). One’s father will incur early death, if ?ani, Mangal and Candr in their orders are in Tanu, Yuvati and Ari Bhava. 6. The native will at the time of his marriage lose his father, if Guru is in Tanu Bhava, while ?ani, S?rya, Mangal and Budh are together in Dhan Bhava. 7. Early loss of father will take place, if S?rya is with a malefic, or is hemmed between malefics, as there is another malefic in the 7th from S?rya. 8. Remote will be the possibility of one’s father sustaining, if S?rya is in Yuvati, while Mangal is in Karm and Rahu is in Vyaya Bhava. 9. Early and troubled will be one’s father’s death, if Mangal is in Karm Bhava identical with his enemy’s R??i. 10. Candr in Ari Bhava, ?ani in Tanu Bhava and Mangal in Yuvati Bhava: this array of heavenly bodies at birth will not ensure a long span of life for the father. 11. If S?rya receives a Drishti from ?ani and be in Mesh, or in Vrischik Nav???, the father would have given up the family before birth of the child, or would have passed away. 12. If Bandhu, Karm and Vyaya Bhava are all occupied by malefics, both the parents will leave the child to its own fate and wander from place to place. 13. The father will not see the native till his (the native’s) 23rd year, if Rahu and Guru are together in an inimical R??i identical with Tanu, or Bandhu Bhava. 43-45. Parents. S?rya is the indicator of father for all beings, while the mother is indicated by Candr. Should S?rya receive a Drishti from one, or more malefics, or be hemmed between them, this will cause evils to father. Similarly Candr be considered in respect of mother. Malefics in the 6th, the 8th, or the 4th from S?rya will bring inauspicious results about the father. Malefics in such places from Candr will be adverse for the mother. The strength, or otherwise of the occupants concerned be suitably estimated. Ch. 10. Antidotes for Evils 1. Those are the evils (due to a native). I now narrate the antidotes for such evils as well, which will be helpful to assess the extent of inauspiciousness. 2. Should one among Budh, Guru and ?ukr be in an angle from Lagn, all evils are destroyed, as S?rya eliminates darkness. 3. Just as a single reverential obeisance before Lord Shiva, the Trident holder frees one from all sins, a single, but strong Guru in Lagn will ward off all the evils. 4. Lagn Lord is singly capable of counteracting all evils, if he is strongly placed in an angle, just as Lord Shiva, the holder of the Bow destroyed the three cities, built of gold, silver and iron for the demons by Maya. 5.All evils are destroyed, if a benefic drishties Lagn of one born during the night in the bright half. Similarly a malefic’s Drishti on Lagn of one born during day time in the dark half. 1. S?rya in Vyaya will confer a hundred-year life span on one born in Tul Lagn. 2. It will prove auspicious for the mother as well as the native, if Mangal joins, or is drishtied by Guru. 3. If malefics are surrounded by benefics, while angles, or trines are themselves beneficoccupied, evils disappear soon. Not only this, evils will not follow from the Bhavas concerned. Ch. 11. Judgement of Bhavas 1. O Maharishi Parashar, I have come to know of the evils and antidotes thereof from you. Please tell me, what is to be deduced from each Bhava. 2. Indications ofTanu Bhava. Maharishi Parashar replies. Physique, appearance, intellect (or the organ of intelligence, i.e. brain), complexion of the body, vigour, weakness, happiness, grief and innate nature are all to be guessed through the ascending R??i. 1. Indications of Dhan Bhava.Wealth, grains (food etc.), family, death, enemies, metals, precious stones etc. are to be understood through Dhan Bhava. 2. Indications of Sahaj Bhava. From Sahaj Bhava know of the following: valour, servants (attending etc.), brothers, sisters etc., initiatory instructions (Upadesh), journey and parent’s death. 3. Indications of Bandhu Bhava. Conveyances, relatives, mother, happiness, treasure, lands and buildings are to be consulted through Bandhu Bhava. 4. Indications of Putr Bhava.The learned should deduce from Putr Bhava amulets, sacred spells, learning, knowledge, sons, royalty (or authority), fall of position etc. 5. Indications ofAri Bhava. Maternal uncle, doubts about death, enemies, ulcers, stepmother etc. are to be estimated fromAri Bhava. 6. Indications ofYuvati Bhava.Wife, travel, trade, loss of sight, death etc. be known fromYuvati Bhava. 7. Indications of Randhr Bhava. Randhr Bhava indicates longevity, battle, enemies, forts, wealth of the dead and things, that have happened and are to happen (in the past and future births). 8. Indications of Dharm Bhava. Fortunes, wife’s brother, religion, brother’s wife, visits to shrines etc. be known from Dharm Bhava. 9. Indications of Karm Bhava. Royalty (authority), place, profession (livelihood), honour, father, living in foreign lands and debts are to be understood from Karm Bhava. 10. Indications of Labh Bhava.All articles, son’s wife, income, prosperity, quadrupeds etc. are to be understood from Labh Bhava. 11. Indications ofVyaya Bhava. FromVyaya Bhava, one can know about expenses, history of enemies, one’s own death etc. 14-16. Prosperity, orAnnihilation of a Bhava. Predict prosperity of the Bhava, which is yuti with, or drishtied by a benefic. Also, when its Lord is in Yuvavastha, or Prabuddhavastha, or in Kismaravastha, or in Karm Bhava, the Bhavas well-being is indicated. The Bhava, which is not drishtied by its Lord, or, whose Lord is with a malefic Grah, or with one of the Lords of evil and such other Bhavas (i.e. 3rd, 6th, 8th, 11th and 12th), or is defeated in a war between Grahas, or is in one of the three Avasthas, viz, Vriddhavastha, Mritavastha and Suptavastha. Ch. 12. Effects ofTanu Bhava 1-2. Physical comforts. Should Lagn Lord be yuti with a malefic, or be in Randhr, 6th, or 12th, physical felicity will diminish. If he is in an angle, or trine there will be at all times comforts of the body. If Lagn Lord is in debilitation, combustion, or enemy’s R??i, there will be diseases. With a benefic in an angle, or trine all diseases will disappear. Lagn’s angles (i.e. Bandhu,Yuvati, or the 10th), or its trine (Putr, Dharm), containing a benefic, is a powerful remedy for all, related to health. 1. There will not be bodily health, if Lagn, or Candr be drishtied by, or yuti with a malefic, being devoid of a benefics Drishti. 2. Bodily Beauty. A benefic in Lagn will give a pleasing appearance, while a malefic will make one bereft of good appearance. Felicity of the body will be enjoyed, if Lagn is drishtied by, or yuti with a benefic. 5-7. Other Benefits. If Lagn Lord, Budh, Guru, or ?ukr be in an angle, or in a trine, the native will be long lived, wealthy, intelligent and liked by the king. Fame, wealth, abundant pleasures and comforts of the body will be acquired, if Lagn Lord is in a Movable R??i and be drishtied by a benefic Grah. One will be endowed with royal marks (of fortune), if Budh, Guru, or ?ukr be in Lagn along with the Candr, or be in angle from Lagn. If Budh, Guru, or ?ukr be in 4th, 7th, or 10th from Lagn, or be in the company of Candr in Lagn, the native will enjoy royal fortunes. 1. Coiled Birth. If there be a birth in one of Mesh,Vrishabh and Simh Lagnas, containing either ?ani, or Mangal, the birth of the child is with a coil around a limb. The corresponding limb will be in accordance with the R??i, or Nav???, rising. 2. Birth ofTwins. The native, who has S?rya in a quadruped R??i, while others are in Dual R??is with strength, is born, as one of the twins. 3. To Be Nurtured byThree Mothers. If S?rya and Candr join in one and the same Bhava and fall in one Nav???, the native will be nurtured by three different mothers for the first three months from its birth and will later on be brought up by its father and brother. (‘Bhratri’ apart from meaning a brother calls for interpretation, as a near relative in general) 4. Important. The learned in Jyotish should base the effects on Candr also, as are applicable to Lagn. Now explained are clues to know of ulcers, identity marks etc. on one’s person. 12-14. Decanates and Bodily Limbs. Head, eyes, ears, nose, temple, chin and face is the order of limbs, denoted (by the various Bhavas), when the first decanate of a R??i ascends. In the case of the second decanate ascending the order is neck, shoulder, arm, side, heart, stomach and navel. The order for the third decanate ascending is pelvis, anus/penis, testicles, thigh, knee, calf and foot. The portion already risen indicates left side of the body (while the one yet to rise, i.e. the invisible half, denotes the right side of the body). 15. LimbsAffected. The limb, related to a malefic by occupation, will have ulcers, or scars, while the one, related to a benefic, will have a mark (like moles etc). So say the Jyotishis. (Also see Sloka 6, Ch. 4 of Saravali, which states, that a malefic, or a benefic, if be in own R??i, or Nav???, the effects will be right from birth. In other cases it will be in the course of one’s life, that these effects will come to pass) Ch. 13. Effects of Dhan Bhava 1-2. Combinations forWealth. O excellent of the Brahmins, listen to me, speaking on the effects of Dhan Bhava. If the Lord of Dhan is in Dhan, or is in an angle, or in trine, he will promote one’s wealth (or monetary state). Should he be in Ari/8th/12th, financial conditions will decline. A benefic in Dhan will give wealth, while a malefic instead will destroy wealth. 1. One will be wealthy, if Guru is in Dhan, as the Lord of Dhan, or is with Mangal. 2. If Dhan Lord is in Labh, while the Lord of Labh in Dhan, wealth will be acquired by the native. Alternately these two Lords may join in an angle, or in a trine. 3. If the Lord of Dhan is in an angle, while Labh Lord is in a trine thereof, or is drishtied by, or yuti with Guru and ?ukr, the subject will be wealthy. 6-7. Yogas for Poverty. One will be penniless, if the Lord of Dhan Bhava is in an evil Bhava, while the Lord of Labh Bhava is also so placed and Dhan Bhava is occupied by a malefic.There will be penury right from birth and the native will have to beg even for his food, if the Lords of Dhan and Labh Bhava are both combust, or with malefics. 1. Loss ofWealth through the King. Should the Lords of Dhan and Labh Bhava be relegated to Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, while Mangal is in Labh Bhava and Rahu is in Dhan Bhava, the native will lose his wealth on account of royal punishments. 1. Expenses on Good Accounts. When Guru is in Labh, ?ukr is in Dhan and a benefic is placed in Vyaya Bhava, while Dhan’s Lord is yuti with a benefic, there will be expenses on religious, or charitable grounds. 2. Fame etc. If Dhan’s Lord is in own R??i, or is exalted, the native will look after his people, will help others and also will become famous. 3. EffortlessAquisition. If Dhan’s Lord is yuti with a benefic and is in a good division, like Paravat???, there will be effortlessly all kinds of wealth in the native’s family. (“Paravat???dau” of the text denotes Paravat, or such other higherVargas: Dhan’s Lord should be in Paravat???, or in Devalok???, Brahmalok???, Sakravahan???, or Sridham??? in the DashVarg scheme) 4. Eyes. If Dhan Lord is endowed with strength, the native will possess beautiful eyes. Should the said Grah be in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, there will be disease, or deformity of eyes. 5. Untruthful Person. If Dhan Bhava and its Lord are yuti with malefics, the native will be a talebearer, will speak untruth and will be afflicted by windy diseases. Ch. 14. Effects of Sahaj Bhava 1. O Brahmin, I now tell you about Sahaj Bhava. Should Sahaj Bhava be yuti with, or drishtied by a benefic, the native will be endowed with co-born and be courageous. 2. If Sahaj’s Lord along with Mangal drishties Sahaj Bhava, the native will enjoy good results, due to Sahaj Bhava. Alternatively these two Grahas may be in Sahaj itself. 3. Destruction at once of co-born will come to pass, if the said 2 Grahas are together with a malefic, or in a R??i, owned by a malefic. 4-4?. Female and Male Co-born. If Sahaj’s Lord is a female Grah, or, if Sahaj Bhava be occupied by female Grahas, one will have sisters, born after him. Similarly male Grahas and male R??is denote younger brothers. Should it be of mixed nature, co-born of both sexes will be obtained. These effects be declared after assessing the strength and weakness of the concerned. 5-6. Should Sahaj’s Lord and Mangal be together in Randhr Bhava, destruction of co-born will result. Happiness in this respect will come to pass, if Mangal, or Sahaj’s Lord is in an angle, or in a trine, or in exaltation, or friendly divisions. 7-11. Number of Brothers and Sisters. If Budh is in Sahaj Bhava, while Sahaj’s Lord and Candr are together, as the indicator (Mangal) joins ?ani, the effects are: there occurred the birth of an elder sister and there will be younger brothers. Furthermore, the third brother will die. Should Mangal be yuti with Rahu, while Sahaj’s Lord is in his debilitation R??i, there will be loss of younger brothers and/or sisters, while three elder brothers and/or sisters were attained by the native. If Sahaj’s Lord is in an angle, while the significator (Mangal) is exalted in a trine and be yuti with Guru, 12 will be the number of total co-born. Out of these two elders and the 3rd, the 7th, the 9th and the 12th of the younger co-born will be shortlived, while six of the said twelve will be longlived. 12-13. There will be 1 co-born, ifVyaya’s Lord (some texts read, as Labh’s Lord) joins Mangal and Guru, while Sahaj Bhava is occupied by Candr. If Candr is lonely placed in Sahaj Bhava with Drishti of male Grahas, there will be younger brothers, while the Drishti of ?ukr denotes younger sisters. 14.Adverse Grahas. S?rya in Sahaj Bhava will destroy the preborn. The afterborn will be destroyed, if ?ani is found in Sahaj Bhava. In the same situation Mangal will destroy both the preborn and later-born. 15.After estimating the strength and weakness of suchYogas, the effects, related to brothers and sisters, be announced. Ch. 15. Effects of Bandhu Bhava 1. O excellent of the Brahmins, thus have been briefly told the effects of Sahaj Bhava. Now listen to the results, related to Bandhu Bhava. 2. Housing Comforts. One will have residential comforts in full degree, if Bandhu is occupied by its Lord, or by Lagn’s Lord and be drishtied by a benefic. 3. Miscellaneous. Should Putr’s Lord be in his own Bhava, or in own Nav???, or in exaltation, the native will be endowed with comforts, related to lands, conveyances, houses etc. and musical instruments. 4. Housing Comforts. If Karm’s Lord joins Bandhu’s Lord in an angle, or in a trine, the native will acquire beautiful mansions. 5. Relatives. Should Budh be in Lagn, while Bandhu’s Lord, being a benefic, is drishtied by another benefic, the native will be honoured by his relatives. 1. Long-living Mother. If Bandhu Bhava is occupied by a benefic, while its Lord is in his exaltation R??i, as the indicator of mother is endowed with strength, the native will have a long-living mother. 7. Happiness of Mother. The native’s mother will be happy, if Bandhu’s Lord is in an angle, while ?ukr is also in an angle, as Budh is exalted. 8. Quadrupeds. S?rya in Bandhu, Candr and ?ani in Dharm and Mangal in Labh Bhava; thisYoga will confer cows and buffaloes on the native. 9. Dumbness. Should Bandhu Bhava be a Movable one, while its Lord and Mangal are together in Ari, or Randhr Bhava, the native will be dumb. 10-14. Conveyances. If Lagn’s Lord is a benefic, while Bandhu’s Lord is in fall, or in Labh Bhava and the significator (?ukr) is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will obtain conveyances in his 12th year. Should S?rya be in Bandhu Bhava, as Bandhu’s Lord is exalted and be with ?ukr, one will acquire conveyances in his 32nd year. It will be in the 42nd year, that one will be endowed with conveyances, if Bandhu’s Lord joins Karm’s Lord in his (4th Lord’s) exaltation Nav???.An exchange between Labh’s and Bandhu’s Lords will confer conveyances in the 12th year. A benefic, related to Bandhu Bhava (and to its Lord), will bring with him auspicious effects (regarding conveyances), while a malefic will produce only malefic effects (in respect of conveyances). Should a benefic be in Bandhu, drishti Bandhu, or in yuti with the Lord of Bandhu, or a Drishti on the Lord of Bandhu Bhava, then the native will be happy with conveyances and be free from accidents and dangers. A malefic, replacing the said benefic, will cause losses, concerning vehicles and reduce one to severe accidents. Ch. 16. Effects of Putr Bhava 1-3. O Brahmin, now I tell you the effects, related to Putr Bhava. If the Lords of Lagn and Putr are in their own R??is, or in an angle, or in a trine, one will enjoy thorough happiness through his children. Should Putr’s Lord be in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, there will be no offspring. Should the Lord of Putr be combust, or be with malefics and be weak, there will be no children; even, if per chance issues are obtained, they will only quit the world soon.The Yuti of Putr’s Lord with Lagn’s Lord in a good Bhava will ensure early obtainment of children apart from happiness through them. If they join in an evil Bhava, they will prove a defect in this respect. 1. If Putr’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, as Lagn’s Lord is yuti with Mangal, the native will lose his very first child, whereafter his female will not be fertile to yield an offspring. 2. Should Putr’s Lord be in fall in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, while Budh and Ketu are in Putr Bhava, the native’s wife will give birth to one child only. 1. If Putr’s Lord is in fall and be not in Drishti to Putr, while ?ani and Budh are in Putr, the native’s wife will give birth to one child only. 2. Should Dharm’s Lord be in Lagn, while Putr’s Lord is in fall and Ketu is in Putr along with Budh, obtainment of progeny will be after a great deal of ordeal. 3. If Putr’s Lord is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, or be in an inimical R??i, or be in fall, or in Putr itself, the native will beget issues with difficulty. 4. Should Putr Bhava be owned by ?ani, or Budh and be occupied, or drishtied by ?ani and Mandi, one will have adopted issues. 5. Should S?rya and Candr be together in a R??i and in the same Nav???, the native will be brought up by three mothers, or two fathers. 6. Adopted issue is indicated, if Putr is tenanted by six Grahas, while its Lord is in Vyaya Bhava and Candr and Lagn are endowed with strength. 7. There will be many children, if Putr’s Lord is strong, while Putr is drishtied by strong Budh, Guru and ?ukr. 8. If Putr’s Lord is with Candr, or is in her Decanate, the native will beget daughters; so say Jyotishis. 9. If Putr’s Lord is in a Movable R??i, while ?ani is in Putr, as Rahu is with Candr, the child (so born) is of questionable birth. 10. Undoubtedly the native is born of other’s loins, if Candr is in the 8th from Lagn, while Guru is in the 8th from Candr. Malefic’s Drishti, orYuti is essential in thisYog. 11. If Putr’s Lord is exalted, or be in Dhan, Putr, or Dharm Bhava, or be yuti with, or drishtied by Guru, obtainment of children will be there. 12. One will obtain children, that will indulge in mean deeds, if Putr is occupied by three, or four malefics, while Putr’s Lord is in fall.A benefic (including Budh) in Putr is excluded in the said combination. 13. If Putr is occupied by Guru, while its Lord is with ?ukr, one will obtain an offspring in his 32nd, or 33rd year. 14. Should Putr’s Lord be in an angle along with Guru, the Karak, one will beget a child at the age of 30, or 36. 1. If Guru is in Dharm Bhava, while ?ukr is in the 9th from Guru along with Lagn’s Lord, one will beget a child at the age of 40. 2. The native will at the age of 32 lose his child, if Rahu is in Putr, Putr’s Lord is in Yuti with a malefic and Guru is in debilitation. 3. There will be loss of children at 33 and 36, if a malefic is in the 5th from Guru, while another is in the 5th from Lagn. 4. Should Mandi be in Lagn, while Lagn’s Lord is in fall, grief on account of loss of child at the age of 56 will come to pass. 24-32. Number of Children. There will be 10 sons, if Bandhu Bhava andAri Bhava are occupied by malefics, while Putr’s Lord is in deep exaltation, joining Lagn’s Lord, as Guru is with another benefic. Nine will be the number of sons, that one will beget, if Guru is in deep exaltation, as Rahu is with Dhan’s Lord and Dharm is occupied by its own Lord. There will be eight sons, if Guru is in Putr, or Dharm Bhava, while Putr’s Lord is endowed with strength and Dhan’s Lord is in Karm Bhava. ?ani in Dharm Bhava, while Putr’s Lord is in Putr itself, gives 7 sons, out of which twins will be born twice. If Putr’s Lord is in Putr in Yuti with Dhan’s Lord, there will be birth of 7 sons, out of which 3 will pass away. Only one son is denoted, if there be a malefic in Putr Bhava, while Guru is in the 5th from ?ani, or vice versa. If Putr Bhava has a malefic in it, or, if ?ani is in the 5th from Guru, the native will beget offspring only through his second, or third wife. Should Putr be occupied by a malefic, while Guru is yuti with ?ani in Putr Bhava, as Lagn’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava and Putr’s Lord is yuti with Mangal, one will live long, but lose his children one after the other, as they are born. Ch. 17. Effects ofAri Bhava 1. O Brahmin, following are the effects, produced byAri Bhava, relating to diseases, ulcers etc. Listen to this attentively. 2. Ulcers/Bruises. Should Ari’s Lord be in Ari itself, or in Lagn, or Randhr, there will be ulcers, or bruises on the body. The R??i, becomingAri Bhava, will lead to the knowledge of the concerned limb. 3-5. RelativesAffected.The Karak of a relative, or the Lord of such a Bhava, joining Ari’s Lord, or being in Ari, or Randhr Bhava, indicates ulcers/bruises to such a relative, like father. S?rya with such lordship and in such a Bhava denotes such affectation of head, Candr of the face, Mangal of the neck, Budh of the navel, Guru of the nose, ?ukr of the eyes, ?ani of the feet and the Rahu and Ketu of the abdomen. 6. Facial Diseases. Should Lagn’s Lord be in a R??i of Mangal, or of Budh and has a Drishti on Budh, there will be diseases of the face. 7-8?. Leprosy. Mangal, or Budh, having ownership of the ascending R??i and joining Candr, Rahu and ?ani, will cause leprosy. If Candr is in Lagn, which is not however Cancer, and be with Rahu, there will occur white leprosy. ?ani in place of Rahu will cause black leprosy, while Mangal similarly will afflict one with blood-leprosy. 9-12?. Diseases in General. When Lagn is occupied by the Lords ofAri and Randhr Bhava along with S?rya, the native will be afflicted by fever and tumours. Mangal, replacing S?rya, will cause swelling and hardening of the blood vessels and wounds and hits by weapons. Budh so featuring will bring in billious diseases, while Guru in similar case will destroy any disease. Similarly ?ukr will cause diseases through females, ?ani windy diseases, Rahu danger through low-caste-men and Ketu navel diseases. Candr in Yuti with the Lords of Ari and Randhr Bhava will inflict dangers through water and phlegmatic disorders. Similar estimates be made from the respective significators and Bhavas for relatives, like father. 13-19? TIMING OF ILLNESS. The native will be afflicted by illness throughout life, if ?ani is with Rahu, while Ari Lord and 6th Bhava are yuti with malefics. One will suffer from (severe) fever at the age of 6 and at the age of 12, if Mangal is in Ari, while Ari Lord is in Randhr. If the Candr is in Dhanu/Meen, while Guru is in Ari from Lagn, one will suffer from leprosy at the age of 19 and 22. If Rahu is in Ari, Lagna Lord is in Randhr and Mandi is in an angle, consumption will trouble the native at the age of 26. Spleenary disorders will be experienced at the age of 29 and 30, if the Lords of 6th and 12th are in exchange of their R??is. ?ani and Candr together in Ari will inflict blood-leprosy at the age of 45. If ?ani is with an inimical planet, while Lagn Lord is in Lagn itself, windy disorders (like rheumatism) will trouble the native at the age of 59. 20-22. UNFORTUNATEYEARS. Should Candr be yuti with Ari Lord, while the 8th Lord is in Ari and the 12th Lord is in Lagn, the native will be troubled by animals at the age of eight. O Brahmin, if Rahu is in Ari, while ?ani is in Randhr from the said Rahu, the child will have danger through fire at the age of 1 and 2, while in Sahaj year birds will bring some evils. 23-25. UNFORTUNATEYEARS (continued). Danger through water will have to be feared during Putr and Dharm years, if S?rya is in Ari, or Randhr, while Candr is in Vyaya from the said S?rya. ?ani in Randhr, as Mangal is in Yuvati, all cause small-pox in Karm year and in 30th year of age. If 8th Lord joins Rahu in an angle/trine from Randhr Bhava and be in Randhr in Navamsa, the subject will be troubled by swelling of blood vessels, urinary disorders etc. during the 18th year and the 22nd year. 1. LOSS THROUGH ENEMIES. Loss of wealth will come to pass during the 31st year, if Labh and 6th Lords exchange their R??is. 2. INIMICAL SONS. One’s own sons will be his enemies, if Putr Lord is in Ari, while Ari Lord is with Guru. SimultaneouslyVyaya Lord should be in Lagn. 3. FEAR FROM DOGS.There will be fear from dogs during the 10th and 19th year, if the Lagna Lord and the 6th Lord are in exchange. Ch. 18. Effects ofYuvati Bhava 1. O excellent of the Brahmins, listen to me, detailing the effects of the 7th Bhava. If Yuvati Lord is in his own R??i, or in exaltation, one will derive full happiness through his wife (and marriage). 2. SICKWIFE. Should Yuvati Lord be in Ari, 8th, orVyaya, the wife will be sickly. This however does not apply to own Bhava, or exaltation placement, as above. 3. Excessive·Libidinousness/Death·of·Wife. If ?ukr is in Yuvati, the native will be exceedingly libidinous. If ?ukr yuti a malefic in any Bhava, it will cause loss of wife. 4-5. THE 7TH LORD. Should Yuvati Lord be endowed with strength and be yuti with, or be drishtied by a benefic, the native will be wealthy, honourable, happy and fortunate. Conversely, ifYuvati Lord is in fall, or is combust, or is in an enemy’s R??i, one will acquire sick wives and many wives. 6. PLURALITY OF WIVES. IfYuvati Lord is in a R??i of ?ani, or of ?ukr and be drishtied by a benefic, there will be many wives. Should Yuvati Lord be particularly in exaltation, the same effects will come to pass. 7-8?. MlSCELLANEOUS MATTERS. The native will befriend barren females, if S?rya is in Yuvati. Candr therein will cause association with such female, as corresponding to the R??i, becomingYuvati. Mangal, placed in Yuvati, will denote association with marriageable girls (those with menses), or with barren females. Budh indicates harlots, mean females and females, belonging to traders’ community. Wife of a Brahmin, or a pregnant female will be in the native’s association, if Guru is in Yuvati. Base females and females, having attained their courses, are denoted by ?ani, Rahu/Ketu in Yuvati. 8-9?. Mangal denotes a female with attractive breasts. ?ani indicates sick and weak spouse. Guru will bring a spouse with hard and prominent breasts. ?ukr will bring one with bulky and excellent breasts. 10-13?. Malefics in Vyaya and 7th, while decreasing Candr is in Putr denote, that the native will be controlled by spouse, who will be inimical to the race (or family). If Yuvati Bhava is occupied, or owned by ?ani/Mangal, the native will beget a harlot, as his spouse, or he will be attached to other illegally. Should ?ukr be in a Navamsa of Mangal, or in a Rasi of Mangal, or receive a Drishti from, or be yuti with Mangal, the native will “kiss” the private parts of the female. If ?ukr is so related to ?ani, the native will “kiss” the private parts of the male. 14-15. WORTHY SPOUSE. The native will beget a spouse endowed with (the seven principal) virtues, who will expand his dynasty by sons and grandsons, if the 7th Lord is exalted, while Yuvati is occupied by strong Lagna Lord and a benefic. 1. EVILS TO SPOUSE. IfYuvati Bhava, or its Lord is yuti with a malefic the native’s wife will incur evils, especially, ifYuvati Bhava, or its Lord is bereft of strength. 2. LOSS OF SPOUSE. IfYuvati Lord is devoid of strength and is relegated to Ari, 8th, orVyaya, or, ifYuvati Lord is in fall, the native’s wife will be destroyed (i.e. she will die early). 3. LACK OF CONJUGAL FELICITY. If Candr is in Yuvati, asYuvati Lord is in Vyaya and the Karaka (indicator ?ukr) is bereft of strength, the native will not be endowed with marital happiness. 19-21. PLURALlIY OF WIVES. One will have two wives, ifYuvati Lord is in fall, or in a malefic R??i along with a malefic, while Yuvati Bhava, or the 7th Navamsa belong to a eunuch planet. If Mangal and ?ukr are in Yuvati, or, if ?ani isYuvati, while the Lord of Lagn is in Randhr, the native will have 3 wives. There will be many wives, if ?ukr is in a Dual R??i, while its Lord is in exaltation, asYuvati Lord is endowed with strength. 1. TIME OF MARRIAGE (upto Sloka 34). IfYuvati Lord is in a benefic’s Bhava (or in Dharm, as Subha R??i so means), while ?ukr is exalted, or is in own R??i, the native will marry at the age of 5, or 9. 2. If S?rya is in Yuvati, while his dispositor is yuti with ?ukr, there will be marriage at 7th, or 11th year of age. 3. ?ukr in Dhan, while Yuvati Lord is in Labh will give marriage at the age of 10, or 16. 1. Marriage will take place during the 11th year, if ?ukr is in an angle from Lagn, while Lagn Lord is in Makar, or Kumbh. 2. The native will marry at 12, or l9, if ?ukr is in an angle from the Lagna, while ?ani is in Yuvati counted from ?ukr. 3. Should ?ukr be in Yuvati from Candr, while ?ani is in Yuvati from ?ukr, marriage will be in the 18th year. 4. Marriage will be in the 15th year, if Dhan Lord is in Labh, while Lagn Lord is in Karm. 29.An exchange between the Lords of Dhan and Labh will bring marriage 13 years after birth. 30. Ones 22nd/27th year will confer marriage, if ?ukr is in Yuvati from the 8th Bhava (i.e. Dhan from Lagna), while his dispositor is yuti with Mangal. 1. Should Yuvati Lord be in Vyaya, while the natal Lord is in Yuvati in Navamsa, marriage will be in 23rd/26th year of age. 2. Either the 25th year, or the 33rd year will bring marriage, if Randhr Lord is in Yuvati, as ?ukr is in Navamsa Lagna. 3. Should ?ukr be in Dharm from Dharm (i.e. in Putr Bhava), while Rahu is in one of the said Bhavas (i.e. in Putr/Dharm), marriage will take place during 31st, or 33rd year. 4. The native will marry at 30, or 27, if ?ukr is in Lagn, while the 7th Lord is in Yuvati itself. 35-39. TIMING OF WIFE’S DEATH. Loss of wife will occur in the 18th year, or 33rd year of age of the native, ifYuvati Lord is in fall, while ?ukr is in Randhr. One will lose his spouse in his 19th year, ifYuvati Lord is in the 8th, while Vyaya Lord is in Yuvati. The native’s wife will die within three days of marriage due to snake bite, if the native has Rahu in Dhan and Mangal in Yuvati. If ?ukr is in Randhr, while his dispositor is in a R??i of ?ani, death of wife will take place during the native’s 12th, or 21st year of age. Should the ascendat Lord be in his R??i of debilitation, as Dhan Lord is in Randhr, loss of wife will occur in the 13th year of age. 40-41. THREE MARRIAGES. Should Candr be in Yuvati from ?ukr, while Budh is in Yuvati from Candr and Randhr Lord is in Putr (from the Lagna), there will be marriage in Karm year followed by another in the 22nd year and yet another in the 33rd year. 42. DEATH OF WlFE. lfAri, 7th and 8th are in their order occupied by Mangal, Rahu and ?ani, the native’s wife will not live (long). Ch. 19. Effects of Randhr Bhava 1. Long Life. O excellent of the Brahmins, listen to me speak on the effects of Randhr Bhava. If Randhr’s Lord is in an angle, long life is indicated. 2. Short Life. Should Randhr’s Lord join Lagn’s Lord, or a malefic and be in Randhr itself, the native will be short lived. 3. ?ani and Karm’s Lord about Longevity. Similarly consider ?ani and Karm’s Lord in the matter of longevity. Karm’s Lord is in Randhr along with a malefic Grah and/or Lagn’s Lord. 4-7. Long Life. There will be long life, ifAri’s Lord is in Vyaya, or, ifAri’s Lord is in Ari, asVyaya’s Lord is in Vyaya, or, ifAri’s Lord andVyaya’s Lord are in Lagn and Randhr. If the Lords of Putr, Randhr and Tanu Bhava are in own Nav???as, own R??is, or in friendly R??is, the native will enjoy a long span of life. Should the Lords of Lagn, Randhr and Karm Bhava and ?ani are all disposed severally in an angle, in a trine, or in Labh Bhava, the subject will live long. Like these, there are many otherYogas, dealing with the issue of longevity. The strength and weakness of the Grahas concerned be estimated in deciding longevity. 8-13. Short Life. One’s span of life will be between 20 and 32 years, if Lagn’s Lord is weak, while Randhr’s Lord is an angle. The native will only be short-lived, if Randhr’s Lord is in fall, while Randhr Bhava has a malefic in it and Tanu Bhava is bereft of strength. Death will be instant at birth, if Randhr Bhava, Randhr’s Lord and Vyaya Bhava are all conjunct malefics. Malefics in angles and/or trines and benefics in Ari and/or Randhr Bhava, while Tanu Bhava has in it Randhr’s Lord in fall: thisYoga will cause immediate end. If Putr and Randhr Bhava and Randhr’s Lord are all conjunct malefics, the life span will be very brief. Within a month of birth, death will befall the child, if Randhr’s Lord is in Randhr itself, while Candr is with malefics and be bereft of beneficial Drishti. 14-15. Long Life (again). One will be long-lived, if Lagn’s Lord is in exaltation, while Candr and Guru are, respectively, in Labh and Randhr Bhava. If Lagn’s Lord is exceedingly strong and receives a Drishti from a benefic, which is placed in an angle, the person concerned will be wealthy, virtuous and long-lived. Ch. 20. Effects of Dharm Bhava (1)Combinations for Fortunes. O Brahmin, now listen to the effects of Dharm Bhava. One will be fortunate (or affluent), if Dharm’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava with strength. (2)Should Guru be in Dharm Bhava, while Dharm’s Lord is in an angle and Lagn’s Lord is endowed with strength, one will be extremely fortunate. 1. Fortunate (Affluent) Father. If Dharm’s Lord is with strength, as ?ukr is in Dharm, while Guru is in an angle fromTanu Bhava, the native’s father is fortunate. 2. Indigent Father. If Dharm’s Lord is debilitated, while the 2nd and/or the 4th from Dharm Bhava is occupied by Mangal, the native’s father is poor. 3. Long-living Father. Should Dharm’s Lord be in deep exaltation, while ?ukr is in an angle fromTanu Bhava and Guru is in the 9th from Nav??? Lagn, the father of the native will enjoy a long span of life. 4. Royal Status for Father. If Dharm’s Lord is an angle and receives a Drishti from Guru, the native’s father will be a king endowed with conveyances, or be equal to a king. 5. Wealthy and Famous Father. Should Dharm’s Lord be in Karm Bhava, while Karm’s Lord receives a Drishti from a benefic the native’s father will be very rich and famous. 8-9. Virtuous and Devoted to Father. Should S?rya be in deep exaltation, as Dharm’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will be virtuous, dear to the king and devoted to father. If S?rya is in a trine from Lagna, while Dharm’s Lord is in Yuvati in yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from Guru, the native will be devoted to his father. 1. Fortunes etc. Acquisition of fortunes, conveyances and fame will follow the 32nd year of age, if Dharm’s Lord is in Dhan, while Dhan’s Lord is in Dharm. 2. Inimical to Father. There will be mutual enmity between the father and the native, if Lagn’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, but with the Lord ofAri. Further, the native’s father will be of contemptible disposition. 3. Begged Food. If Karm’s Lord and Sahaj’s Lord are bereft of strength, while Dharm’s Lord is in fall, or combust the native will go begging for his food. 13-25. Combinations for Father’s Death.The father of the native would have passed away prior to the native’s birth, if S?rya is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, as Randhr’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava,Vyaya’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava and Ari’s Lord is in Putr Bhava. Should S?rya be in Randhr Bhava, while Randhr’s Lord is in Dharm, the native’s father will pass away within a year of his birth. If the Lord ofVyaya Bhava is in Dharm Bhava, while Dharm’s Lord is in its debilitation Nav???, the native’s father will face his end during the 3rd, or the 16th year of the native. Death of father will occur in the 2nd, or the 12th year, if Lagn’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, as Randhr’s Lord is with S?rya. Should Rahu be in the 8th from Dharm, as S?rya is in the 9th from Dharm, death of father will take place in the 16th, or the 18th year of the native. If ?ani is in the 9th from Candr, as S?rya is with Rahu, the native’s father will die in the 7th, or the 19th year of the native. The native in his 44th year will lose his father, if Dharm’s Lord is in Vyaya, asVyaya’s Lord is in Dharm. If Lagn’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, as Candr is in S?rya’s Nav???, the native in his 35th, or 41st year will lose his father. One will lose his father in the 50th year, if S?rya, being the Lord of Dharm, is conjunct Mangal and ?ani. If S?rya is in the 7th from Dharm Bhava, as Rahu is in the 7th from Sahaj Bhava, the 6th, or 25th year of the native will be fatal for father. If ?ani is in the 7th from Randhr Bhava, as S?rya is in the 7th from ?ani, the ages of 21, 26, or 30 will be fatal for the father. If Dharm’s Lord is in its debilitation R??i, while his dispositor is in Dharm Bhava, the native will lose his father at the age of 26, or 30. Thus the Jyotishis may know the effects. 26. Fortunes. One will enjoy abundant fortunes, if ?ukr is in deep exaltation and be in the company of Dharm’s Lord, as ?ani is in Sahaj. 27-28. Fortunate Periods.Abundant fortunes be acquired after the 20th year, if Dharm has Guru in it, as its Lord is in an angle from Lagn. Should Budh be in his deep exaltation, as Dharm’s Lord is in Dharm itself, abundant fortunes will be earned after the 36th year. 1. Should Lagn’s Lord be in Dharm, as Dharm’s Lord is in Lagn and Guru is in Yuvati, there will be gains of wealth and conveyances. 2. Lack of Fortunes. If Rahu is in the 9th from Dharm Bhava, as his dispositor is in Randhr Bhava and Dharm’s Lord is in fall, the native be devoid of fortunes. 3. Food by Begging. Should ?ani be in Dharm Bhava along with Candr, as Lagn’s Lord is in fall, the native will acquire food by begging. 4. O Brahmin, these are the effects related to Dharm Bhava. I have explained briefly. These may be estimated with the help of the state of the Lords of Lagn and Dharm Bhava and in other manners as well. Ch. 21. Effects of Karm Bhava 1. I now explain the effects of Karm Bhava. Listen to these, o Maitreya, in the words of Brahma, Garga and others. 2. Paternal Happiness. If Karm’s Lord is strong and in exaltation, or in its own R??i/Nav???, the native will derive extreme paternal happiness, will enjoy fame and will perform good deeds. 3. If Karm’s Lord is devoid of strength, the native will face obstructions in his work. If Rahu is in an angle, or in a trine, he will perform religious sacrifices, like Jyotishtoma. 4. If Karm’s Lord is with a benefic, or be in an auspicious Bhava, one will always gain through royal patronage and in business. In a contrary situation, only opposite results will come to pass. 5. Should Karm and Labh Bhava be both occupied by malefics, the native will indulge only in bad deeds and will defile his own men. 6. If the Lord of Karm Bhava is relegated to Randhr Bhava along with Rahu, the native will hate others; be a great fool and will do bad deeds. 7. If ?ani, Mangal and Karm’s Lord are in Yuvati, asYuvati’s Lord is with a malefic, the native will be fond of carnal pleasures and of filling his belly. 8-10 Should Karm’s Lord be in exaltation and be in the company of Guru, as Dharm’s Lord is in Karm the native will be endowed with honour, wealth and valour. One will lead a happy life, if Labh’s Lord is in Karm and Karm’s Lord is in Lagn, or, if the Lord of Karm Bhava is yuti with the Lord of Labh Bhava in an angle. Should Karm’s Lord in strength be in Meen along Guru, the native will doubtless obtain robes, ornaments and happiness. 11. Should Rahu, S?rya, ?ani and Mangal be in Labh Bhava, the native will incur cessation of his duties. 12. One will be learned and wealthy, if Guru is in Meen along with ?ukr, while Lagn’s Lord is strong and Candr is in exaltation. 13. Should Karm’s Lord be in Labh, while Labh’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava and ?ukr is in Karm, the native will be endowed with precious stones. 14. If the Karm’s Lord is exalted in an angle, or a trine and is yuti with Guru, or receives a Drishti from Guru, one will be endowed with deeds. 1. Should Karm’s Lord be in Lagn along with Lagn’s Lord, as Candr is in an angle, or in a trine, the native will be interested in good deeds. 16. If ?ani is in Karm Bhava along with a debilitated Grah, while Karm Bhava in the Nav??? Kundali is occupied by a malefic, the native will be bereft of acts. 17. One will indulge in bad acts, if Karm’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, while Randhr’s Lord is in Karm Bhava with a malefic. 18. Obstructions to the native’s acts will crop up, if Karm’s Lord is in fall, as both Karm Bhava and the 10th from Karm Bhava have malefic occupations. 19-21. Combinations for Fame. One will be endowed with fame, if Candr is in Karm Bhava, while Karm’s Lord is in a trine from Karm Bhava and Lagn’s Lord is in Lagn’s angle. Similar effects will come to pass, if Labh’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, while Karm’s Lord is strong and gives a Drishti to Guru. Fame will come to the native, if Karm’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, as Lagn’s Lord is in Karm Bhava and Candr is in Putr Bhava. 22. O excellent of the Brahmins, thus have been told about the effects of Karm Bhava in a brief manner. Other related effects be guessed by you based on the relationship of the Lords of Lagn and of Karm Bhava. Ch. 22. Effects of Labh Bhava 1. O excellent of the Brahmins, I now explain effects relating to Labh Bhava, the auspiciousness of which Bhava will make one happy at all times. 2. Should Labh’s Lord be in Labh itself, or be in an angle, or in a trine from Lagn, there will be many gains. Similarly, if Labh’s Lord is exalted, though in combustion there will be many gains. 3. If Labh’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, while Dhan’s Lord is in an angle along with Guru, the gains will be great. 4. If Labh’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, while Labh Bhava is occupied by a benefic, the native will gain 2000 Nishkas in his 36th year. 5. If Labh’s Lord is yuti with a benefic in an angle, or in a trine, the native will acquire 500 Nishkas in his 40th year. 6. The native will own 6000 Nishkas, if Labh Bhava is occupied by Guru, while Dhan Bhava and Dharm Bhava are, respectively, taken over by Candr and ?ukr by position. 1. Should Guru, Budh and Candr be in the 11th from Labh, the native will be endowed with wealth, grains, fortunes, diamonds, ornaments etc. 2. One will gain 1000 Nishkas in his 33rd year, if Labh’s Lord is in Lagn and Lagn’s Lord is in Labh Bhava. 3. If Labh’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, as Dhan’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, one will amass abundant fortunes after marriage. 4. If Labh’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, as Sahaj’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, one will gain wealth through co-borns and will be endowed with excellent ornaments. 5. There will be no gains in spite of numerous efforts, if Labh’s Lord is in fall, in combustion, or be in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava with a malefic. Ch. 23. Effects ofVyaya Bhava 1-4. O Brahmin, now I tell you about the effects ofVyaya Bhava.There will be expenses on good accounts, ifVyaya’s Lord is with a benefic, or in his own Bhava, or exalted, or, if a benefic occupiesVyaya. One will own beautiful houses and beds and be endowed with superior scented articles and pleasures, if Candr happens to be Vyaya’s Lord and be exalted, or be in its own R??i and/or Nav???, or in Labh/Dharm/Putr Bhava in R??i/Nav???. The said native will live with rich clothes and ornaments, be learned and Lordly. 5-6. And, ifVyaya’s Lord is in Ari, or Randhr Bhava, or be in enemy’s Nav???, in debilitation Nav???, or in Randhr Bhava in Nav???, one will be devoid of happiness from wife, be troubled by expenses and deprived of general happiness. If he be in an angle, or trine, the native will beget a spouse. 1. Just as these effects are derived fromTanu Bhava in regard to the native, similar deductions be made about co-borns etc. from Sahaj and other Bhavas. 2. Grahas placed in the visible half of the zodiac will give explicit results, while the ones in the invisible half will confer secret results. 3. If Rahu is in Vyaya along with Mangal, ?ani and S?rya, the native will go to hell. Similar effect will occur, ifVyaya’s Lord is with S?rya. 4. If there is a benefic in Vyaya, while its Lord is exalted, or is yuti with, or receives a Drishti from a benefic, one will attain final emancipation. 1. One will wander from country to country, ifVyaya’s Lord and Vyaya Bhava are with malefics and Vyaya’s Lord gives a Drishti to, or receives a Drishti from malefics. 2. One will move in his own country, ifVyaya’s Lord and Vyaya Bhava are with benefics and Vyaya’s Lord gives a Drishti to, or receives a Drishti from benefics. 3. Earnings will be through sinful measures, ifVyaya is occupied by ?ani, or Mangal etc. and is not receiving a Drishti from a benefic. 4. If Lagn’s Lord is in Vyaya, while Vyaya’s Lord is in Lagn with ?ukr, expenses will be on religious grounds. Ch. 24. Effects of the Bhava Lords 1. Effects of Lagn’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 12). Should Lagn’s Lord be in Lagn itself, the native will be endowed with physical happiness and prowess. He will be intelligent, fickle-minded, will have two wives and will unite with other females. 2. If the Lagn’s Lord is in Dhan, he will be gainful, scholarly, happy, endowed with good qualities, be religious, honourable and will have many wives. 3. If Lagn’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will equal a lion in valour, be endowed with all kinds of wealth, be honourable, will have two wives, be intelligent and happy. 4. If Lagn’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be endowed with paternal and maternal happiness, will have many brothers, be lustful, virtuous and charming. 5. If Lagn’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will have mediocre progenic happiness, will lose his first child, be honourable, given to anger and be dear to king. 6. If Lagn’s Lord is in Ari Bhava and related to a malefic the native will be devoid of physical happiness and will be troubled by enemies, if there is no benefic Drishti. 7. If Lagn’s Lord is a malefic and is placed in Yuvati Bhava, the natives wife will not live (long). If the Grah in question is a benefic, one will wander aimlessly, face penury and be dejected. He will alternatively become a king (if the said Grah is strong). 8. If Lagn’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be an accomplished scholar, be sickly, thievish, be given to much anger, be a gambler and will join others’ wives. 1. If Lagn’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will be fortunate, dear to people, be a devotee of ?r?Vishnu, be skilful, eloquent in speech and be endowed with wife, sons and wealth. 10. If Lagn’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will be endowed with paternal happiness, royal honour, fame among men and will doubtlessly have self-earned wealth. 11. If Lagn’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will always be endowed with gains, good qualities, fame and many wives. (12)If Lagn’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava and is devoid of benefic Drishti and/orYuti, the native will be bereft of physical happiness, will spend unfruitfully and be given to much anger. 13. Effects of Dhan’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 24). If Dhan’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be endowed with sons and wealth, be inimical to his family, lustful, hard-hearted and will do others’ jobs. 14. If Dhan’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be wealthy, proud, will have two, or more wives and be bereft of progeny. 15. If Dhan’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be valorous, wise, virtuous, lustful and miserly; all these, when related to a benefic. If related to a malefic, the native will be a heterodox. 16. If Dhan’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will acquire all kinds of wealth. If Dhan’s Lord is exalted and is yuti with Guru, one will be equal to a king. 17. If Dhan’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will be wealthy. Not only the native, but also his sons will be intent on earning wealth. 18. If Dhan’s Lord is in Ari Bhava along with a benefic, the native will gain wealth through his enemies; if Dhan’s Lord is yuti with a malefic, there will be loss through enemies apart from mutilation of shanks. 19. If Dhan’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be addicted to others’ wives and he will be a doctor. If a malefic is related to the said placement by yuti with Dhan’s Lord, or by Drishti, the native’s wife will be of questionable character. 20. If Dhan’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be endowed with abundant land and wealth. But he will have limited marital felicity and be bereft of happiness from his elder brother. 1. If Dhan’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will be wealthy, diligent, skilful, sick during childhood and will later on be happy and will visit shrines, observing religious code etc. 22. If Dhan’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will be libidinous, honourable and learned; he will have many wives and much wealth, but he will be bereft of filial happiness. 23. If Dhan’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will have all kinds of wealth, be ever diligent, honourable and famous. 24. If Dhan’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will be adventurous, be devoid of wealth and be interested in other’s wealth, while his eldest child will not keep him happy. 25. Effects of Sahaj’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 36). If Sahaj’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava, the native will have self-made wealth, be disposed to worship, be valorous and be intelligent, although devoid of learning. 26. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be corpulent, devoid of valour, will not make much efforts, be not happy and will have an eye on others’ wives and others’ wealth. 27. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be endowed with happiness through co-born and will have wealth and sons, be cheerful and extremely happy. 28. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be happy, wealthy and intelligent, but will acquire a wicked spouse. 29. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will have sons and be virtuous. If in the process Sahaj’s Lord be yuti with, or receives a Drishti from a malefic, the native will have a formidable wife. 30. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will be inimical to his co-born, be affluent, will not be well disposed to his maternal uncle and be dear to his maternal aunt. 31. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be interested in serving the king. He will not be happy during boyhood, but the end of his life he will be happy. 32. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be a thief, will derive his livelihood serving others and will die at the gate of the royal palace. 1. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will lack paternal bliss, will make fortunes through wife and will enjoy progenic and other pleasures. 34. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will have all lands of happiness and self-made wealth and be interested in nurturing wicked females. 35. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, then native will always gain in trading, be intelligent, although not literate, be adventurous and will serve others. 36. If Sahaj’s Lord is in Vyaya, the native will spend on evil deeds, will have a wicked father and will be fortunate through a female. 37. Effects of Bandhu’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 48). If Bandhu’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be endowed with learning, virtues, ornaments, lands, conveyances and maternal happiness. 38. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will enjoy pleasures, all kinds of wealth, family life and honour and be adventurous. He will be cunning in disposition. 39. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be valorous, will have servants, be liberal, virtuous and charitable and will possess self-earned wealth. He will be free from diseases. 40. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Bandhu, the native will be a minister and will possess all kinds of wealth. He will be skilful, virtuous, honourable, learned, happy and be well disposed to his spouse. 41. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will be happy and be liked by all. He will be devoted to ?r?Vishnu, be virtuous, honourable and will have self-earned wealth. 42. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will be devoid of maternal happiness, be given to anger, be a thief and a conjurer, be independent in action and be indisposed. 43. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be endowed with a high degree of education, will sacrifice his patrimony and be akin to the dumb in an assembly. 44. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be devoid of domestic and other comforts, will not enjoy much parental happiness and be equal to a neuter. 45. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will be dear to one and all, be devoted to God, be virtuous, honourable and endowed with every land of happiness. 1. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will enjoy royal honours, be an alchemist, be extremely pleased, will enjoy pleasures and will conquer his five senses. 47. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will have fear of secret disease, he will be liberal, virtuous, charitable and helpful to others. 48. If Bandhu’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava the native will be devoid of domestic and other comforts, will have vices and be foolish and indolent. 49. Effects of Putr’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 60). If Putr’s Lord is in Lagn, the native will be scholarly, be endowed with progenic happiness, be a miser, be crooked and will steal others’ wealth. 50. If Putr’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will have many sons and wealth, be a pater familias, be honourable, be attached to his spouse and be famous in the world. 51. If Putr’s Lord is in Sahaj, the native will be attached to his co-born, be a tale bearer and a miser and be always interested in his own work. 52. If Putr’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be happy, endowed with maternal happiness, wealth and intelligence and be a king, or a minister, or a preceptor. 53. If Putr’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will have progeny, if related to a benefic; there will be no issues, if malefic is related to Putr’s Lord, placed in Putr Bhava. Putr’s Lord in Putr Bhava will, however, make one virtuous and dear to friends. 54. If Putr’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will obtain such sons, who will be equal to his enemies, or will lose them, or will acquire an adopted, or purchased son. 55. If Putr’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be honourable, very religious, endowed with progenic happiness and be helpful to others. 56. If Putr’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will not have much progenic happiness, be troubled by cough and pulmonary disorders, be given to anger and be devoid of happiness. 57. If Putr’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will be a prince, or equal to him, will author treatises, be famous and will shine in his race. 58. If Putr’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will enjoy a RajYog and various pleasures and be very famous. 1. If Putr’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will be learned, dear to people, be an author of treatises, be very skilful and be endowed with many sons and wealth. 60. If Putr’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will be bereft of happiness from his own sons, will have an adopted, or purchased son. 61. Effects ofAri’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 72). IfAri’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be sickly, famous, inimical to his own men, rich, honourable, adventurous and virtuous. 62. IfAri’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be adventurous, famous among his people, will live in alien countries, be happy, be a skilful speaker and be always interested in his own work. 63. IfAri’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be given to anger, be bereft of courage, inimical to all of his co-born and will have disobedient servants. 64. IfAri’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be devoid maternal happiness, be intelligent, be a tale bearer, be jealous, evil-minded and very rich. 65. IfAri’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will have fluctuating finances. He will incur enmity with his sons and friends. He will be happy, selfish and kind. 66. IfAri’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will have enmity with the group of his kinsmen, but be friendly to others and will enjoy mediocre happiness in matters, like wealth. 67. IfAri’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be deprived of happiness through wedlock. He will be famous, virtuous, honourable, adventurous and wealthy. 68. IfAri’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be sickly, inimical, will desire others’ wealth, be interested in others’ wives and be impure. 69. IfAri’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will trade in wood and stones (‘Pashan’ also means poison) and will have fluctuating professional fortunes. 70. IfAri’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will be well known among his men, will not be respectfully disposed to his father and will be happy in foreign countries. He will be a gifted speaker. 71. IfAri’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will gain wealth through his enemies, be virtuous, adventurous and will be somewhat bereft of progenic happiness. 1. IfAri’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will always spend on vices, be hostile to learned people and will torture living beings. 2. Effects ofYuvati’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 84). IfYuvati’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava, the native will go to others’ wives, be wicked, skilful, devoid of courage and afflicted by windy diseases. 3. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will have many wives, will gain wealth through his wife and be procrastinating in nature. 4. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will face loss of children and sometimes with great difficulty there will exist a living son.There is also the possibility of birth of a daughter. 5. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the wife of the native will not be under his control. He will be fond of truth, intelligent and religious. He will suffer from dental diseases. 6. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will be honourable, endowed with all (i.e. seven principal) virtues, always delighted and endowed with all kinds of wealth. 1. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will beget a sickly wife and he will be inimical to her. He will be given to anger and will be devoid of happiness. 2. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be endowed with happiness through wife, be courageous, skilful and intelligent, but only afflicted by windy diseases. 3. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be deprived of marital happiness. His wife will be troubled by diseases, be devoid of good disposition and will not obey the native. 4. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will have union with many women, be well disposed to his own wife and will have many undertakings. 5. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will beget a disobedient wife, will be religious and endowed with wealth, sons etc. 6. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will gain wealth through his wife, be endowed with less happiness from sons etc. and will have daughters. 7. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will incur penury, be a miser and his livelihood will be related to clothes. His wife will be a spendthrift. 1. Effects of Randhr’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 96). If Randhr’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be devoid of physical felicity and will suffer from wounds. He will be hostile to gods and Brahmins. 2. If Randhr’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be devoid of bodily vigour, will enjoy a little wealth and will not regain lost wealth. 3. If Randhr’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be devoid of fraternal happiness, be indolent and devoid of servants and strength. 4. If Randhr’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the child will be deprived of its mother. He will be devoid of a house, lands and happiness and will doubtlessly betray his friends. 5. If Randhr’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will be dull witted, will have limited number of children, be long-lived and wealthy. 6. If Randhr’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will win over his enemies, be afflicted by diseases and during childhood will incur danger through snakes and water. 7. If Randhr’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will have two wives. If Randhr’s Lord is yuti with a malefic in Yuvati Bhava, there will surely be downfall in his business. 8. If Randhr’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be long-lived. If the said Grah is weak, being in Randhr Bhava, the longevity will be medium, while the native will be a thief, be blameworthy and will blame others as well. 9. If Randhr’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will betray his religion, be a heterodox, will beget a wicked wife and will steal others’ wealth. 10. If Randhr’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will be devoid of paternal bliss, be a talebearer and be bereft of livelihood. If there is a Drishti in the process from a benefic, then these evils will not mature. 11. If Randhr’s Lord along with a malefic is in Labh Bhava, the native will be devoid of wealth and will be miserable in boyhood, but happy later on. Should Randhr’s Lord be yuti with a benefic and be in Labh Bhava, the native will be long-lived. 12. If Randhr’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will spend on evil deeds and will incur a short life. More so, if there be additionally a malefic in the said Bhava. 1. Effects of Dharm’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 103). If Dharm’s Lord is in Lagn, the native will be fortunate, will be honoured by the king, be virtuous, charming, learned and honoured by the public. 2. If Dharm’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be a scholar, be dear to all, wealthy, sensuous and endowed with happiness from wife, sons etc. 3. If Dharm’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be endowed with fraternal bliss, be wealthy, virtuous and charming. 4. If Dharm’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will enjoy houses, conveyances and happiness, will have all kinds of wealth and be devoted to his mother. 5. If Dharm’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will be endowed with sons and prosperity, devoted to elders, bold, charitable and learned. 6. If Dharm’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will enjoy meagre prosperity, be devoid of happiness from maternal relatives and be always troubled by enemies. 7. O Brahmin, If Dharm’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native beget happiness after marriage, be virtuous and famous. 8. If Dharm’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will not be prosperous and will not enjoy happiness from his elder brother. 9. If Dharm’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will be endowed with abundant fortunes, virtues and beauty and will enjoy much happiness from co-born. 10. If Dharm’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will be a king, or equal to him, or be a minister, or an Army chief, be virtuous and dear to all. 11. If Dharm’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will enjoy financial gains day by day, be devoted to elders, virtuous and meritorious in acts. 12. If Dharm’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will incur loss of fortunes, will always spend on auspicious acts and will become poor on account of entertaining guests. 13. Effects of Karm’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 120). If Karm’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be scholarly, famous, be a poet, will incur diseases in boyhood and be happy later on. His wealth will increase day by day. 110 If Karm’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be wealthy, virtuous, honoured by the king, charitable and will enjoy happiness from father and others. 1. If Karm’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will enjoy happiness from brothers and servants, be valorous, virtuous, eloquent and truthful. 2. If Karm’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be happy, be always interested in his mother’s welfare, will Lord over conveyances, lands and houses, be virtuous and wealthy. 3. If Karm’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will be endowed with all kinds of learning, he will be always delighted and he will be wealthy and endowed with sons. 4. If Karm’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will be bereft of paternal bliss.Although he may be skilful, he will be bereft of wealth and be troubled by enemies. 5. If Karm’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be endowed with happiness through wife, be intelligent, virtuous, eloquent, truthful and religious. 6. If Karm’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be devoid of acts, long-lived and intent on blaming others. 7. If Karm’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, one born of royal scion will become a king, whereas an ordinary native will be equal to a king. This placement will confer wealth and progenic happiness etc. 8. If Karm’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will be skilful in all jobs, be valorous, truthful and devoted to elders. 9. If Karm’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will be endowed with wealth, happiness and sons. He will be virtuous, truthful and always delighted. 10. If Karm’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will spend through royal abodes, will have fear from enemies and will be worried in spite of being skilful. 11. Effects of Labh’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 132). If Labh’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be genuine in disposition, be rich, happy, even-sighted, be a poet, be eloquent in speech and be always endowed with gains. 12. If Labh’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be endowed with all kinds of wealth and all kinds of accomplishments, charitable, religious and always happy. 13. If Labh’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be skilful in all jobs, wealthy, endowed with fraternal bliss and may sometimes incur gout pains. 12. If Labh’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will gain from maternal relatives, will undertake visits to shrines and will possess happiness of house and lands. 1. If Labh’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will be happy, educated and virtuous. He will be religious and happy. 2. If Labh’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will be afflicted by diseases, be cruel, living in foreign places and troubled by enemies. 3. If Labh’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will always gain through his wife’s relatives, be liberal, virtuous, sensuous and will remain at the command of his spouse. 4. If Labh’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will incur reversals in his undertakings and will live long, while his wife will predecease him. 5. If Labh’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will be fortunate, skilful, truthful, honoured by the king and be affluent. 6. If Labh’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will be honoured by the king, be virtuous, attached to his religion, intelligent, truthful and will subdue his senses. 7. If Labh’s Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will gain in all his undertakings, while his learning and happiness will be on the increase day by day. 8. If Labh’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will always depend on good deeds, be sensuous, will have many wives and will befriend barbarians. 9. Effects ofVyaya’s Lord in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 144). IfVyaya’s Lord is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be a spendthrift, be weak in constitution, will suffer from phlegmatic disorders and be devoid of wealth and learning. 10. IfVyaya’s Lord is in Dhan Bhava, the native will always spend on inauspicious deeds, be religious, will speak sweetly and will be endowed with virtues and happiness. 11. IfVyaya’s Lord is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be devoid of fraternal bliss, will hate others and will promote self-nourishment. 12. IfVyaya’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be devoid of maternal happiness and will day by day accrue losses with respect to lands, conveyances and houses. 1. IfVyaya’s Lord is in Putr Bhava, the native will be bereft of sons and learning. He will spend, as well as visit shrines in order to beget a son. 2. IfVyaya’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, the native will incur enmity with his own men, be given to anger, be sinful, miserable and will go to others’ wives. (139)IfVyaya’s Lord is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will incur expenditure on account of his wife, will not enjoy conjugal bliss and will be bereft of learning and strength. 1. IfVyaya’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the native will always gain, will speak affably, will enjoy a medium span of life and be endowed with all good qualities. 2. IfVyaya’s Lord is in Dharm Bhava, the native will dishonour his elders, be inimical even to his friends and be always intent on achieving his own ends. 3. IfVyaya’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, the native will incur expenditure through royal persons and will enjoy only moderate paternal bliss. 4. IfVyaya Lord is in Labh Bhava, the native will incur losses, be brought up by others and will sometimes gain through others. 5. IfVyaya’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will only face heavy expenditure, will not have physical felicity, be irritable and spiteful. 145-148. Miscellaneous. O Brahmin, those are the effects of Bhava Lords, which are to be deduced, considering their strengths and weaknesses. In the case of a Grah, owning two Bhavas, the results are to be deducted based on its two lordships. If contrary results are thus indicated, the results will be nullified, while results of varied nature will come to pass. The Grah will yield full, half, or a quarter of the effects according to its strength being full, medium and negligible, respectively. Thus I have told you about the effects, due to Bhava Lords in various Bhavas. Ch. 25. Effects of Non-Luminous Grahas 1. Thus I have explained the effects of the seven Grahas, viz. S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, ?ani, Rahu and Ketu. Now I tell you about the effects of non-luminous Grahas. 2. Effects of Dhum in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 13). If Dhum is in Lagn, the native will be valiant, endowed with beautiful eyes, stupefied in disposition, unkind, wicked and highly short-tempered. 3. If Dhum is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be sickly, wealthy, devoid of a limb, will incur humiliation at royal level, be dull witted and be a eunuch. 4. Dhum is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be intelligent, very bold, delighted, eloquent and be endowed with men and wealth. 5. If Dhum is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be grieved on account of being given up by his female, but will be learned in all Shastras. 6. If Dhum is in Putr Bhava, the native will have limited progeny, be devoid of wealth, be great, will eat anything and be bereft of friends and Mantras. 7. If Dhum is in Ari Bhava, the native will be strong, will conquer his enemies, be very brilliant, famous and free from diseases. 8. If Dhum is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be penniless, be ever sensuous, skilful in going to others’ females and be always devoid of brilliance. 9. If Dhum is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be bereft of courage, but be enthusiastic, be truthful, disagreeable, hardhearted and selfish. 10. If Dhum is in Dharm Bhava, the native will be endowed sons and fortunes, be rich, honourable, kind, religious and well disposed to his relatives. 11. If Dhum is in Karm Bhava, the native will be endowed with sons and fortunes, be delighted, intelligent, happy and truthful. 12. If Dhum is in Labh Bhava, the native will be endowed with wealth, grains and gold, be beautiful, will have knowledge of arts, be modest and be skilful in singing. 13. If Dhum is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will be morally fallen, will indulge in sinful acts, be interested in others’ wives, addicted to vices, unkind and crafty. 14. Effects ofVyatipat in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 25). IfVyatipat (also known in short, as Pat) is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be troubled by miseries, be cruel, will indulge in destructive acts, be foolish and will be disposed to his relatives. 15. IfVyatipat is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be morally crooked, be bilious, will enjoy pleasures, be unkind, but grateful, be wicked and sinful. 1. IfVyatipat is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be firm in disposition, be a warrior, be liberal, very rich, dear to the king and be head of an Army. 17. IfVyatipat is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be endowed with relatives etc., but not sons and fortunes. 18. IfVyatipat is in Putr Bhava, the native will be poor, be charming in appearance, will have imbalances of phlegm, bile and wind, be hard-hearted and shameless. 19. IfVyatipat is in Ari Bhava, the native will destroy his enemies, be physically mighty, skilful in use of all kinds of weapons and in arts and be peaceful in disposition. 20. IfVyatipat is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be bereft of wealth, wife and sons, will subdue to females, be miserable, sensuous, shameless and friendly to others. 21. IfVyatipat is in Randhr Bhava, the native will have deformity of eyes, be ugly, unfortunate, spiteful to Brahmins and be troubled by disorders of blood. 22. IfVyatipat is in Dharm Bhava, the native will have many kinds of business and many friends; he will be very learned, well disposed to his wife and he will be eloquent. 23. IfVyatipat is in Karm Bhava, the native will be religious, peaceful, skilful in religious acts, very learned and far-sighted. 24. IfVyatipat is in Labh Bhava, the native will be extremely opulent, be honourable, truthful, firm in policy, endowed with many horses and be interested in singing. 25. IfVyatipat is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will be given to anger, associated with many activities, disabled, irreligious and hate his own relatives. 26. Effects of Paridhi (or Parivesh) in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 37). If Paridhi is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be learned, truthful, peaceful, rich, endowed with sons, pure, charitable and dear to elders. 27. If Paridhi is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be wealthy, charming, will enjoy pleasures, be happy, very religious and be a Lord. 28. If Paridhi is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be fond of his wife, be very charming, pious, well disposed to his men, be a servant and be respectful of his elders. 29. If Paridhi is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be wonder-struck, helpful to enemies as well, kind, endowed with everything and be skilful in singing. 1. If Paridhi is in Putr Bhava, the native will be affluent, virtuous, splendourous, affectionate, religious and dear to his wife. 2. If Paridhi is in Ari Bhava, the native will be famous and wealthy, be endowed with sons and pleasures, be helpful to all and will conquer his enemies. 3. If Paridhi is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will have limited number of children, be devoid of happiness, be of mediocre intelligence, very hard-headed and will have a sickly wife. 4. If Paridhi is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be spiritually disposed, peaceful, strong-bodied, firm in decision, religious and gentle. 5. If Paridhi is in Dharm Bhava, the native will be endowed with sons, be happy, brilliant, very affluent, be devoid of excessive passion, be honourable and be happy with even a iota. 6. If Paridhi is in Karm Bhava, the native will be versed in arts, will enjoy pleasures, be strong-bodied and be learned in all Shastras. 6. If Paridhi is in Labh Bhava, the native will enjoy pleasures through women, be virtuous, intelligent, dear to his people and will suffer disorders of digestive fire. 1. If Paridhi is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will always be a spendthrift, be miserable, firm and will dishonour elders. 2. Effects of Chap (Indr Dhanus, or Kodanda, up to Sloka 49). If Chap is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be endowed with wealth, grains and gold, be grateful, agreeable and devoid of all actions. 3. If Chap is in Dhan Bhava, the native will speak affably, be very rich, modest, learned, charming and religious. 4. If Chap is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be a miser, be versed in many arts, will indulge in thieving, be devoid of some limb and be unfriendly. 5. If Chap is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be happy, endowed with quadrupeds, wealth, grains etc., be honoured by the king and be devoid of sickness. 6. If Chap is in Putr Bhava, the native will be splendourous, far-sighted, pious, affable and will acquire prosperity in all his undertakings. 1. If Chap is in Ari Bhava, the native will destroy his enemies, be happy, affectionate, pure and will achieve plentifulness in all his undertakings. 2. If Chap is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be wealthy, endowed with all virtues, learned in Shastras, religious and agreeable. 3. If Chap is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be interested in others’ [213] jobs, be cruel, interested in others’ wives and have a defective limb. 4. If Chap is in Dharm Bhava, the native will perform penance, will take to religious observations, be highly learned and be famous among men. 5. If Chap is in Karm Bhava, the native will be endowed with many sons, abundant wealth, cows, buffaloes etc. and will be famous among men. 6. If Chap is in Labh Bhava, the native will gain many treasures, will be free from diseases, very fiery in disposition, affectionate to his wife and will have knowledge of Mantras and weapons. 7. If Chap is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will be wicked, very honourable, evil in disposition, shameless, will go to other’s females and be ever poor. 8. Effects of Dhwaj (Sikhi, or UpaKetu) in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 61). If Dhwaj is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be skilful in all branches of learning, be happy, efficient in speech, agreeable and be very affectionate. 9. If Dhwaj is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be a good and affable speaker, be splendourous, will write poetry, be scholarly, honourable, modest and endowed with conveyances. 10. If Dhwaj is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be miserly, cruel acts, thin-bodied, poor and will incur severe diseases. 11. If Dhwaj is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be charming, very virtuous, gentle, interested in Vedic Knowledge and be always happy. 12. If Dhwaj is in Putr Bhava, the native will be happy, will enjoy pleasures, be versed in arts, skilled in expedients, intelligent, eloquent and will respect elders. 13. If Dhwaj is in Ari Bhava, the native will be ominous for material relatives, will win over his enemies, be endowed with many relatives, valiant, splendourous and skilful. 1. If Dhwaj is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be interested in gambling, be sensuous, will enjoy pleasures and will befriend prostitutes. 2. If Dhwaj is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be interested in base acts, be sinful, shameless, will blame others, will lack in marital happiness and will take other’s side. 3. If Dhwaj is in Dharm Bhava, the native will wear badges, be delighted, helpfully disposed to all and he will be skilled in religious deeds. 4. O Brahmin, if Dhwaj is in Karm Bhava, the native will be endowed with happiness and fortunes, be fond of females, be charitable and will befriend Brahmins. 5. If Dhwaj is in Labh Bhava, the native will ever acquire gains, be very religious, honourable, affluent, fortunate, valiant and skilled in sacrificial rites. 6. If Dhwaj is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will be interested in sinful acts, be valiant, untrustworthy, unkind, interested in others’ females and be short-tempered. 7. Effects of Gulik in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 73). If Gulik is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be afflicted by diseases, be lustful, sinful, crafty, wicked and very miserable. 8. If Gulik is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be unsightly in appearance, miserable, mean, given to vices, shameless and penniless. 9. If Gulik is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be charming in appearance, will head a village, be fond of virtuous men and be honoured by the king. 10. If Gulik is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be sickly, devoid of happiness, sinful and afflicted due to windy and billious excesses. 11. If Gulik is in Putr Bhava, the native will not be praise-worthy, be poor, short-lived, spiteful, mean, be a eunuch, be subdued by his wife and be a heterodox. 12. If Gulik is in Ari Bhava, the native will be devoid of enemies, be strong-bodied, splendourous, liked by his wife, enthusiastic, very friendly and helpful in disposition. 13. If Gulik is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will subdue to his spouse, be sinful, will go to others’ females, be emaciated, devoid of friendship and will live on his wife’s wealth. 14. If Gulik is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be troubled by hunger, be miserable, cruel, very much short-tempered, very unkind, poor and bereft of good qualities. 1. If Gulik is in Dharm Bhava, the native will undergo many ordeals, be emaciated, will perform evil acts, be very unkind, sluggish and be a talebearer. 2. If Gulik is in Karm Bhava, the native will be endowed with sons, be happy, will enjoy many things, be fond of worshipping gods and fire and will practice meditation and religion. 3. If Gulik is in Labh Bhava, the native will enjoy women of class, be a leader of men, be helpful to his relatives, be short stature and be an emperor. 4. If Gulik is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will indulge in base deeds, be sinful, defective-limbed, unfortunate, indolent and will join mean people. 5. Effects of Pranapad’s Position with reference to Lagn and in Various Bhavas (up to Sloka 85). If Pranapad is in Tanu Bhava, the native will be weak, sickly, dumb, lunatic, dull witted, defective-limbed, miserable and emaciated. 6. If Pranapad is in Dhan Bhava, the native will be endowed with abundant grains, abundant wealth, abundant attendants, abundant children and be fortunate. 7. If Pranapad is in Sahaj Bhava, the native will be injurious (or mischievous), proud, hard-hearted, very dirty and be devoid of respect for elders. 8. If Pranapad is in Bandhu Bhava, the native will be happy, friendly, attached to females and elders, soft and truthful. 9. If Pranapad is in Putr Bhava, the native will be happy, will do good acts, be kind and very affectionate. 10. If Pranapad is in Ari Bhava, the native will be subdued by his relatives and enemies, be sharp, will have defective digestive fire, be wicked, sickly, affluent and short-lived. 11. If Pranapad is in Yuvati Bhava, the native will be green-eyed, ever libidinous, fierce in appearance, be not worth respect and be ill-disposed. 12. If Pranapad is in Randhr Bhava, the native will be afflicted by diseases, be troubled and will incur misery on account of the king, relatives, servants and sons. 13. If Pranapad is in Dharm Bhava, the native will be endowed with sons, be very rich, fortunate, charming, will serve others and be not wicked, but be skilful. 14. If Pranapad is in Karm Bhava, the native will be heroic, intelligent, skilful, be an expert in carrying out royal orders and will worship gods. 84 If Pranapad is in Labh Bhava, the native will be famous, virtuous, learned, wealthy, fair-complexioned and attached to mother. 85. If Pranapad is in Vyaya Bhava, the native will be mean, wicked, defective-limbed, will hate Brahmins and relatives and suffer from eye diseases, or be one-eyed. 86-87. O Brahmin, these are the effects for Dhum etc. Before declaring these results, the effects of S?rya and other Grahas should be wisely conceived by their positions, relations and Drishtis apart from their strength, or weakness. Ch. 26. Evaluation of Drishtis of Grahas 1. O Glorious, it is said, that Drishtis (of Grahas) and their strengths are to be known in deciding the effects. How many kinds are these? Please clarify doubts. 2-5. Drishtis of the Grahas. O Brahmin, I have earlier stated Drishtis, based on R??is. The other kind is between Grahas, which I detail below. 3rd and 10th, 5th and 9th, 4th and 8th and lastly 7th. On these places the Drishtis increase gradually in slabs of quarters, i.e ?, ?, ? and full. The effects will also be proportionate. All Grahas give a Drishti to the 7th fully. ?ani, Guru and Mangal have special Drishtis, respectively, on the 3rd and the 10th, the 5th and the 9th and the 4th and the 8th. The ancient preceptors have explained these, which ordinary. By subtle mathematical calculations these Drishtis will have to be clearly understood, as under. 6-8. Evaluation of the Drishtis of the Grahas. Deduct the longitude of the Grah (or Bhava), that receives a Drishti, from that of the Grah, which gives the Drishti. If the sum exceeds six R??is, deduct the sum again from 10 R??is. Convert the latter sum into degrees and divide by two. The resultant product is Drishti Kona (or aspectual angle). If the difference is in excess of 5 R??is, ignore the R??is and multiply the degrees etc. by 2, which is the value of the Drishti. If the difference is in excess of 4 R??is, deduct it from 5 R??is, and the resultant degees etc. become the Drishti value. If the difference is in excess of 3 R??is, deduct it from 4 R??is and (increase 30 by) halve the product to get the Drishti value. If the difference is above 2 R??is, ignore the R??is and add 15 to the degrees etc. to get the Drishti value. If it is in excess of one R??i, ignore the R??is and divide the degrees by 2 to get the Drishti value. 9-10. Special consideration for ?ani’s Drishtis. O Brahmin, if ?ani is the Grah, that gives a Drishti, find out the difference between him and the Grah, that receives the Drishti; if the sum is above 1 R??i, multiply the degrees etc. by 2 to get the Drishti value. If the sum is above nine R??is, the degrees to elapse be doubled to get the Drishti value. If the sum is above 2 R??is, the degrees etc. be halved and deducted from 60. If the sum exceeds 8 R??is, add to the degrees etc. a figure of 30 to get the Drishti value. In other cases, the sums be processed, as explained earlier. 1. Special consideration for Mangal’s Drishtis. Deduct the longitude of Mangal from that of the Grah, that receives the Drishti. If the sum is 3 R??is & c, or 7 R??is & c, the degrees etc. be reduced from 60. If it is above 2 R??is, the degrees etc. be increased by half of it and superadd 15. If the sum is 6 R??is, one Rup is the value. 2. Special consideration for Guru’s Drishtis. Deduct the longitude of Guru from that of the Grah, that receives the Drishti from Guru. If the resultant sum is 3 R??is & c, or 7 R??is & c, halve the degrees etc. and increase it by 15. It the sum is 4 R??is & c, or 8 R??is & c, the degrees etc. be subtracted from 60. This will be the Drishti value.The sum, being in conformity with others than these, be treated, as stated earlier. Ch. 27. Evaluation Of Strengths Shad Bal consists of the following: Sthan Bal (positional), Dig Bal (directional), Kaal Bal (Temporal), inclusive ofAyan Bal (equinoctial), Chesht Bal (motional), Naisargika Bal (natural), Drik Bal (aspectual). These strengths are computed for the seven Grahas from S?rya to ?ani. The nodes are not considered. Sthan Bal comprises of the following considerations: Uchch Bal (exaltation), Sapt Vargaj Bal (strength accruing out of positions in R??i, Hora, Dreshkan, Sapt???, Nav???, Dvadash??? and Trimsh???), OjhayugmaR??i??? Bal (acquired by placement in odd, or even R??i and in odd, or even Nav???), Kendradi Bal (due to placement in Kon, or Panaphara, or Apoklima Bhava), Dreshkan Bal (due to placement in first, second, or third decanate of a R??i). Kaal Bal comprises of the following subdivisions: Nathonnata Bal (diurnal and nocturnal), Paksh Bal (fortnight), Tribhag Bal (due to day/night being made in 3 parts), Varsh, Maas, Dina and Hora Bal (Varsh - astrological year, Maas - month, Dina weekday and Hora - planetary hour), Ayan Bal (equinoctial), Yudhdh Bal (due to partaking in war between Grahas). 1-1?. Sthan Bal (up to Sloka 6). Firstly Uchch Bal. Now about the strengths by classes positional, temporal etc. Deduct from the longitude of the Grah its (deep) debilitation point. If the sum is less than 6 R??is, consider it, as it is; if it exceeds 6 R??is, deduct the same from 12 R??is. The sum so got be converted into degrees etc. and divided by 3, which is the Grah’s Uchch Bal in Virupas. 2-4. SaptVargaj Bal. If a Grah is in its Mooltrikon R??i, it gets 45 Virupas, in Svasth R??i 30 Virupas, in Pramudit R??i 20 Virupas, in Shant R??i 15 Virupas, in Din R??i 10 Virupas, in Duhkhit R??i 4 Virupas and in Khal R??i 2 Virupas. Similarly these values occur for the other 6 divisional occupations, viz. Hora, Dreshkan, Sapt???, Nav???, Dvadash??? andTrimsh???. When all these are added together the Grah’s SaptVargaj Bal emerges. 4?. OjhayugmaR??i??? Bal. Each of ?ukr and Candr in even R??is and others in odd R??is acquire a quarter of Rupa. These are applicable to such Nav???as also. 1. Kendradi Bal. A Grah in a Kon gets full strength, while one in Panaphara Bhava gets half and the one in Apoklima Bhava gets a quarter, as Kendradi Bal. 2. Dreshkan Bal. Male, female and hermaphrodite Grahas, respectively, get a quarter Rupa according to placements in the first, second and third decanates. 7-7?. Dig Bal. Deduct Bandhu Bhava (Nadir) from the longitudes of S?rya and Mangal, Yuvati Bhava from that of Guru and Budh, Karm Bhava from that of ?ukr and Candr and lastly Lagn from that of ?ani. If the sum is above 180 degrees, deduct the sum from 360. The sum arrived in either way be divided by 3, which will be Dig Bal of the Grah. 8-9. Kaal Bal (up to Sloka 17). Firstly Nathonnata Bal. Find out the difference between midnight and the apparent birth time, which is called Unnata. Deduct Unnata from 30 Ghatis to obtain Nata. Double the Nata in Ghatis, which will indicate identical Nata Bal for Candr, Mangal and ?ani. Deduct the Nata from 60 to know the Unnata Bal of S?rya, Guru and ?ukr. Budh, irrespective of day and night, gets full Nathonnata Bal. 10-11. Paksh Bal. Deduct from Candr’s longitude that of S?rya. If the sum exceeds 6 R??is, deduct the same from 12. The product so obtained be converted into degrees etc. and divided by 3, which will indicate the Paksh Bal of each of the benefic Grahas. The Paksh Bal of benefic should be deducted from 60, which will go to each malefic, as Paksh Bal. 1. Tribagh Bal. One Rupa is obtained by Budh in the first 1/3 part of day time, by S?rya in the second 1/3 part of the day and by ?ani in the last 1/3 part of the day. Similarly Candr, 2. Varsh-Maas-Dina-Hora Bal. 15, 30, 45 and 60 Virupas are in order given to Varsh ?ukr and Mangal get full Bal in the first, second and last 1/3 parts of the night. Guru gets this Bal at all times. Lord, Maas Lord, Dina Lord and Hora Lord. Naisargika Bal has already been explained. The Varsh Lord is the Lord of the day, on which the astrological year of birth starts. To calculate this we first need the number of days, past from the beginning of Creation, the Ahargan. According to late Rev. Ebenezer Burgess, who translated S?rya Siddhanta in English, as on January 1, 1860, the number of days, past from the beginning of Creation are 714,404,108,573. Divide the number of days, past from the day of Creation till the day of birth, by 60. Reject remainder and multiply the quotient by 3. Increase the post-multiplied product by 1 and divide by 7. The remainder will indicate the week day, on which the astrological year, giving birth to the native, opened. Remainder 1 indicates Sunday, 2 Monday and so on. Maas Lord. Divide the sameAhargan by 30 and the quotient indicates months, passed from Creation to birth. The completed months be multiplied by 2 and increased by 1. The latter sum should be divided by 7 and the remainder indicates, on which day the birth month began. Continuing with the same case, we divide 65295 by 30. Quotient is 2176. This sum multiplied by 2 and increased by 1 denotes 4353. Dividing 4353 by 7, we get a remainder of 6, denoting Friday. That is, the month of birth began on Friday and the Maas Bal goes to ?ukr, the Lord of Friday. Dina Lord. Though the week day of birth can be known from ephemeris, or perpetual calendars, we better adopt the method prescribed, which will confirm, if the Ahargan followed is correct. The number of days, as arrived above, indicating Ahargan, be divided by 7 and the remainder will indicate the week day of birth. Hora Bal. Hora means planetary hour. Each day from sunrise to sunrise is divided into 24 equal parts of one hour. These Horas are ruled by the 7 Grahas from S?rya to ?ani. The first Hora of the day is ruled by the Lord of the week day. The 2nd one is ruled by the Lord of the 6th week day, counted from the first ruler. The 3rd Hora is ruled by the Lord of the 6th week day, counted from the 2nd Hora Lord. Similarly it proceeds in the same manner, till the first Hora of the next day is taken over by the Lord of that day himself. Whichever Grah rules the birth Hora, gets the Hora Bal. Horas are to be calculated for mean local time and not standard time of births. 14. Naisargika Bal. Divide one Rupa by 7 and multiply the resultant product by 1 to 7 separately, which will indicate the Naisargika Bal, due to ?ani, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, Candr and S?rya, respectively. 15-17. Ayan Bal. 45, 33 and 12 are the Khandas for calculating Ayan Bal. Add Ayan??? to the Grah and find out the Bhuja (distance from the nearest equinox). Add the figure, corresponding to the R??i (of the Bhuja) to the Bhuja.The degrees etc. of the Bhuja should be multiplied by the figure, corresponding to the highest of the left out Khandas and divided by 30. Add the resultant product to the sum, obtained earlier. Convert this to R??i, degrees, minutes and seconds. If Candr and ?ani are in Tula, or ahead, add to this 3 R??is and, if in Mesh to Kanya, reduce from this 3 R??is. Similarly it is reverse for S?rya, Mangal, ?ukr and Guru. For Budh 3 R??is are always additive.The resultant sum in R??i, degrees and minutes be divided by 3 to get the Ayan Bal in Rupas. Notes. Ayan Bal can be found out on the following simple formula:Ayan Bal = 60*(23°27’ + Kranti)/(46°54’) = (23°27’± Kranti)*1.2793. The following points have to be remembered in respect of Krantis. When Candr, or ?ani have southern Kranti, or, when S?rya, Mangal, Guru, or ?ukr have northern Kranti, take plus. In a contrary situation in respect of these 6 Grahas, take minus.As far as Budh is concerned, it is always plus. Krantis (or declinations) can be ascertained from a standard modern ephemeris. S?rya’sAyan Bal is again multiplied by 2 whereas for others the product arrived in Virupas is considered, as it is. 1. Motional Strength for S?rya and Candr. S?rya’s Chesht Bal will correspond to his Ayan Bal. Candr’s Paksh Bal will itself be her Chesht Bal. 2. Drik Bal. Reduce one fourth of the Drishti Pinda, if a Grah receives malefic Drishtis and add a fourth, if it receives a Drishti from a benefic. Super add the entire Drishti of Budh and Guru to get the net strength of a Grah. 3. War Between Grahas. Should there be a war between the starry Grahas, the difference between the Shad Balas of the two should be added to the victor’s Shad Bal and deducted from the Shad Bal of the vanquished. 21-23. Motions of Grahas (Mangal to ?ani). Eight kinds of motions are attributed to Grahas. These are Vakr (retrogression), Anuvakr (entering the previous R??i in retrograde motion), Vikal (devoid of motion), Mand (somewhat slower motion than usual), Mandatar (slower than the previous), Sama (somewhat increasing in motion), Char (faster than Sama) and Atichar (entering next R??i in accelerated motion). The strengths, allotted due to such 8 motions are 60, 30, 15, 30, 15, 7.5, 45 and 30. 24-25. Motional Strength for Mangal etc. Add together the mean and true longitudes of a Grah and divide the one by two. Reduce this sum from the Seeghroch (or apogee) of the Grah.The resultant product will indicate the Chesht Kendra (or Seeghr Kendra) of the Grah from 12 R??is. The R??i, degrees and minutes so arrived should be converted into degrees, minutes etc. and divided by 3, which will denote the motional strength of the Grah.Thus there are six sources of strength, called Sthan Bal, Dig Bal, Kaal Bal, Drik Bal, Chesht Bal and Naisargika Bal. 26-29. Bhava Balas. Thus I explained about the strengths of the Grahas. DeductYuvati Bhava from the Bhava, if the Bhava happens to be in Kanya, Mithun, Tula, Kumbh, or the first half of Dhanu. If Mesh, Vrishabh, Simh, or first half of Makar, or the second half of Dhanu happen to be the Bhava, deduct Bandhu Bhava from it. Should the Bhava be in Kark, or in Vrischik, deduct from it Lagn. Deduct Karm Bhava from the Bhava, happening to fall in Makar second half, or Meen. Convert the product so obtained into degrees etc. and divide by 3 to get Bhava Bal. If the balance in the process of deducting Nadir, Meridian, Lagn, orYuvati exceeds 6 R??is, deduct it again from 12 R??is, before converting into degrees and dividing by 3. The product after division should be increased by one fourth, if the Bhava in question receives a benefic Drishti. If the Bhava receives a malefic Drishti, one fourth should be reduced. If Guru, or Budh give a Drishti to a Bhava, add that Grah’s Drik Bal also. And then superadd the strength, acquired by the Lord of that Bhava. This will be the net Bhava Bal. 30-31. Special Rules. The Bhavas, occupied by Guru and Budh will each get an addition of 1 Rupa, while each of the Bhavas, occupied by ?ani, Mangal and S?rya, suffer 1 Rupa reduction. 15 Virupas will have to be added to the Bhavas, falling in Seershodaya R??is, if birth happens to be in day time, to the Bhavas, falling in Dual R??is, if birth happens to be in twilight and to the Bhavas, falling in Prishtodaya R??is, if birth be in night time. 32-33. Shad Bal Requirements. 390, 360, 300, 420, 390, 330 and 300 Virupas are the Shad Bal Pindas, needed for S?rya etc. to be considered strong. If the strength exceeds the above-mentioned values, the Grah is deemed to be very strong. If a Grah has the required Shad Bal, it will prove favourable to the native by virtue of its strength. However, ?ani’s extreme strength will give long life as well as miseries. 34-36. Guru, Budh and S?rya are strong, if each of their Sthan Bal, Dig Bal, Kaal Bal, Chesht Bal and Ayan Bal are, respectively, 165, 35, 50, 112 and 30 Virupas. The same required for Candr and ?ukr are 133, 50, 30, 100 and 40. For Mangal and ?ani these are 96, 30, 40, 67 and 20. 37-38. Bhava Effects. O Brahmin, thus the various sources of strengths be gathered together and effects declared. WhateverYogas, or effects have been stated with respect to a Bhava, will come to pass through the strongest Grah. 39-40. Eligibility of Issue Fruitful Predictions. O Maitreya, the words of one, who has achieved skill in mathematics, one, who has put in industrious efforts in the branch of grammar, one, who has knowledge of justice, one, who is intelligent, one, who has knowledge of geography, space and time, one, who has conquered his senses, one, who is skilfully logical (in estimation) and one, who is favourable to Jyotish, will doubtless be truthful. Ch. 28. Isht and Kasht Balas 1. Now I narrate the benefic and malefic tendencies of the Grahas, based on which the Dasha effects can be decided. 2. Exaltation Rays. Deduct the Grah’s debilitation point from its actual position. If the sum exceeds 6 R??is, deduct from 12 R??is. The said sum should then be increased by 1 R??i. The degrees etc. be multiplied by 2, which, when considered along with R??is, will indicate the Uchch Rasmi of the Grah. 3-4. Chesht Rasmi. Chesht Rasmis are to be calculated from Chesht Kendr similar to Uchch Rasmi computations. The Chesht Kendras of Grahas from Mangal to ?ani have already been explained. Add 3 R??is to Sayan S?rya (i.e. with Ayan???), which will be the Chesht Kendr for S?rya. The sidereal longitude of S?rya should be deducted from Candr to get Candr’s Chesht Kendr. If the Chesht Kendr (for any Grah) is in excess of 6 R??is, deduct it from 12 R??is.Add 1 R??i and multiply the degrees etc. by 2, which will indicate the Chesht Rasmi of the Grah. 1. Benefic and Malefic Rays.Add the Uchch Rasmis and Chesht Rasmis together and divide by two. The result will be auspicious rays (Subh Rasmis). Deduct from 8 the Subh Rasmis to obtain inauspicious rays (Asubh Rasmis). 2. Isht and KashtTendencies. Reduce 1 from each of Chesht Rasmi and Uchch Rasmi. Then multiply the products by 10 and add together. Half of the sum will represent the Isht Phala (benefic tendency) of the Grah. Reduce Isht Phala from 60 to obtain the Grah’s Kasht Phala (malefic tendency). 7-9. Isht and Kasht and SaptVarg Phal. 60, 45, 30, 22, 15, 8, 4, 2 and 0 are the Subhankas (Subha Griha Pankthis, benefic points), due to a Grah’s placement, respectively, in exaltation, Mooltrikon, own, great friend’s, friend’s, neutral, enemy’s, great enemy’s and debilitation R??i. If Subhanka is deducted from 60, Asubhanka (Asubh Pankthi, inauspicious points) will emerge. O Brahmin, in otherVargas these are halved. 10.A Grah is considered auspicious in the first five of the said places. In the sixth place it is neutral, i.e. neither good nor bad. And in the other three places it is inauspicious. 11-12. Nature of Effects, due to Dig Bal etc. The directional strength of a Grah is itself representative of the effects, due to the direction; and Kaal Bal itself is indicative of effects, due to the day. Whatever quantum of Dig Bal etc. are obtained by a Grah, will be the extent of auspicious effects, acquirable on account of that strength. Deducting those figures from 60, the extent of inauspiciousness is known. If auspiciousness is more in the case of a Grah’s strength, the Dasha and Bhavas, related to that Grah will be auspicious. These are converse, if inauspiciousness is predominant. 13-14. SaptVarg Phal and Isht and Kasht (Continued). The various strengths (i.e. the other 6 Vargas) be multiplied by the respective Grah’s Shad Bal Pinda, which will indicate the auspiciousness of the Varg concerned.Auspicious, or inauspicious aspect will be by multiplying the Subh, orAsubh Pankthi. Similarly auspicious, or inauspicious effects will be known by multiplying the auspicious, or inauspicious strength by the respective Pankthi. 15-20. Effects of a Bhava.The strength of a Bhava and its Lord have already been explained. The actual effects will be a combination of Bhava strength and its Lord’s strength. If there is a benefic in the Bhava add the same to the auspicious effects and deduct from inauspicious effects, which will denote the inauspicious effects. If a malefic is in the Bhava, reverse the process, i.e. add inauspicious effects and deduct auspicious effects. Similarly Drishtis and Balas. If a Grah is exalted, or with such a dignity, add auspicious effects and reduce inauspicious effects. For debilitation etc. it is converse. In Ashtak Varg add Bindus (auspicious points) and deduct Karanas (inauspicious points). If a Bhava extends to two R??is, the rectification will be done, as per both the Lords. In that case, whichever R??i has more Bindus, that R??i will yield more favourable results, concerning that Bhava. If both the R??is have more auspicious Bindus, take the average. Thus the auspicious and inauspicious effects of a Bhava be understood. Ch. 29. Bhava Padas 1-3. Method of Bhava Calculation. O Brahmin, I shall now tell you about the Padas (Arudhas) for Bhavas and Grahas as well, as laid down by the earlier Maharishis. The Pad of Lagn will correspond to the R??i, arrived at by counting so many R??is from Lagn’s Lord, as he is away fromTanu Bhava. Similarly Padas for other Bhavas be known through their Lords. The word “Pad” exclusively denotes the Pad for Lagn. Names of the 12 Arudhas are Lagn Pad -Arudh ofTanu Bhava, Dhan of Dhan, Vikram (Bhratru) of Sahaj, Matru (Sukh) of Bandhu, Mantra (Putr) of Putr, Rog (Satru) ofAri, Dar (Kalatr) ofYuvati, Maran of Randhr, Pitru of Dharm Bhava, Karm of Karm, Labh of Labh, Vyaya ofVyaya. 4-5. Special Exceptions. The same Bhava, or the 7th from it does not become its Pad. When the Pad falls in the same Bhava, the 10th therefrom be treated, as its Pad. Similarly, when the 7th becomes the Pad of a Bhava, the 4th from the original Bhava in question be treated, as its Pad. If the ruler of a Bhava be in the 4th from the Bhava, then the very Bhava occupied be noted, as the Pad. 6-7. Padas for Grahas. Note the position of a Grah and see how many R??is away is its own R??i with reference to its position. Count so many R??is from the said own R??i and the resultant R??i will become theArudh of the Grah. If a Grah owns two R??is, or, if a R??i is owned by two Grahas; consider the stronger and declare effects accordingly. 8-11. Pad and Finance (up to Sloka 15). O Brahmin, I now tell you of some effects of Grahas, based on Pad. If the 11th from Lagn Pad is occupied, or receives a Drishti from a Grah the native will be happy and rich; wealth will come through various means, if a benefic is related, as above. A malefic will confer wealth through questionable means. If there be both a benefic and a malefic, it will be through both means. If the Grah in question be in exaltation, or in own R??i etc., there will be plenty of gains and plenty of happiness. 12. O excellent of the Brahmins, if the 12th from Lagn Pad does not receive a Drishti, as the 11th from Lagn Pad receives a Drishti from a Grah, then the gains will be uninterrupted. 13-15. O Brahmin, the quantum of gains will correspond to the number of Grahas in, or giving a Drishti to the 11th from Lagn Pad. If there isArgala for the said 11th, there will be more gains, while a benefic Argala will bring still more gains. If the said benefic, causingArgala is in his exaltation R??i, the gains will be still higher. If the said 11th receives a Drishti from a benefic from Lagn, the 9th etc., gains will increase in the ascending order. In all these cases, the 12th from Pad should simultaneously be free from malefic association. A benefic, placed in Lagn, giving a Drishti to the 11th from Arudh Lagn will be still beneficial. If the Drishti is from the 9th from Lagn, it will confer much more gains. 16-17. Pad and Financial Losses (up to Sloka 21). If the 12th from Lagn Pad receives a Drishti from, or is yuti with both benefics and malefics, there will be abundant earnings, but plenty of expenses. The benefic will cause through fair means, malefic through unfair means and mixed Grahas through both fair and unfair means. 1. If the 12th from Lagn Pad is conjunct S?rya, ?ukr and Rahu, there will be loss of wealth through the king. Candr, giving a Drishti to (the said trio in the said Bhava), will specifically cause more such losses. 19. If Budh is in the 12th from Lagn Pad and is yuti with, or receives a Drishti from a benefic, similarly there will be expenses through paternal relatives.A malefic so related to the said Budh will cause loss of wealth through disputes. 20. O Brahmin, if Guru is in the 12th from Lagn Pad, receiving a Drishti from others, the expenses will be through taxes and on the person himself. 21. O Brahmin, if ?ani is in the 12th from Lagn Pad along with Mangal and receives a Drishti from others, the expenses will be through one’s co-born. 22. Gainful Sources. Whatever sources of expenses are indicated above with reference to the 12th from Lagn Pad, gains through similar sources will occur, if Labh Bhava so features with reference to Lagn Pad. 23. The 7th Bhava from Pad (up to Sloka 27). If Rahu, or Ketu is placed in the 7th from Lagn Pad, the native will be troubled by disorders of the stomach, or by fire. 24. Should there be Ketu in the 7th from Lagn Pad, receiving a Drishti from, or being yuti with another malefic, the native will be adventurous, will have (prematurely) grey hair and a big male organ. 25. Should one, two, or all three of Guru, ?ukr and Candr be in the 7th from Lagn Pad, the native will be very wealthy. 26. Whether a benefic, or a malefic, if be exalted in the 7th from Lagn Pad, the native will be affluent and be famous. 27. O Brahmin, theseYogas, as narrated by me with reference to the 7th from Lagn Pad, should also be considered from the 2nd of Lagn Pad. 28.Anyone of Budh, Guru and ?ukr being exalted in the 2nd from Lagn Pad and being with strength will make the subject rich. 29. The Yogas so far stated by me with reference to Lagn Pad be similarly evaluated from Karak??? as well. 30-37. General. If Budh is in the 2nd fromArudh Lagn, the native will Lord over the whole country. ?ukr in the 2nd from Lagn Pad will make one a poet, or a speaker. If the Dar Pad falls in an angle, or in a trine, counted from Lagn Pad, or, if Lagn Pad and Dar Pad both have strong Grahas, the native will be rich and be famous in his country. If the Dar Pad falls in the 6th/ 8th/12th from Lagn Pad, then the native will be poor. If Lagn Pad and the 7th therefrom, or an angle, a trine, an Upachaya therefrom is occupied by a strong Grah, there will be happiness between the husband and wife. If Lagn Pad and Dar Pad are mutually in Kendras, or Konas, there will be amity between the couple. If these be in mutually 6th/8th/12th, doubtlessly mutual enmity will crop up. O Brahmin, similarly mutual relationship, or gain, or loss through son etc. be known, based on Lagn Pad and the relative Bhava Pad. If Lagn Pad and Dar Pad are mutually angular, or 3rd and 11th, or in Konas, the native will be a king, ruling the earth. Similar deductions be made with reference to mutual positions of Lagn Pad and Dhan Pad. Ch. 30. Upa Pad 1-6. O Brahmin, now I tell you about Upa Pad, the auspiciousness of which will confer on the native happiness from progeny, wife etc. The Pad of Lagn, as discussed earlier, is of prime importance. Upa Pad is calculated for the Bhava, following the natal Lagn. This Upa Pad is also called Gaun Pad. O excellent of the Brahmins, if Upa Pad is yuti with, or receives a Drishti from a benefic Grah, one will obtain full happiness from progeny and spouse. Should the Upa Pad be in a malefic’s R??i, or receives a Drishti from, or is yuti with a malefic, one will become an ascetic and go without a wife. If (in the said circumstances) there be a benefic Drishti (on Upa Pad, or the related malefic), or a yuti, deprival of spouse will not come to pass. In this case S?rya, being exalted, or in a friendly R??i, is not a malefic. He is a malefic, if in debilitation, or in an enemy’s R??i. Notes. Regarding Upa Pad calculations, there are more than two views on the same Sloka of Maharishi Parashar, or an identical Sutra from Jaimini. In this text, the word ‘Anuchar’ is used, which denotes ‘the Bhava, following the Lagn at birth’. Normally this isVyaya Bhava. However, when we study other commentaries on Jaimini (Chaukhambh Hindi edition), we are taught, that it isVyaya Bhava in the case of an odd R??i ascending and it is Dhan Bhava in the case of an even R??i ascending. Accordingly the Pad for the 12th, or the 2nd from Lagn is called Upa Pad. In calculating Upa Pad the rules mentioned in verses 4 and 5 of the previous chapter be kept in mind. 7-12. Effect from the 2nd from Upa Pad. If the 2nd from Upa Pad is a benefic R??i, or receives a Drishti from, or is yuti with a benefic, the same good results (as for wife and sons) will come to pass. If there is a Grah in the 2nd from Upa Pad in its debilitation R??i, or debilitation A??, or is yuti with a debilitated, or malefic Grah, there will be destruction of wife. If the said occupant be in its exaltation R??i, or Nav???, or receives a Drishti from another Grah, there will be many charming and virtuous wives. Oh Brahmin, if Mithun happens to be the 2nd from Upa Pad, then also there will be many wives. O excellent of the Brahmins, if the Upa Pad, or the 2nd therefrom be occupied by its own Lord, or, if the said Lord is in his other own Bhava, the death of wife will be at advanced age. 13-15. Wife from the 2nd of Upa Pad (up to Sloka 22). If a Grah being constant indicator of wife (i.e. the 7th Lord, or ?ukr) is in its own Bhava, there will be loss of wife only at a later stage. If the Lord of Upa Pad, or the constant significator of wife is in exaltation, the wife will be from a noble family. Reverse will be the case, if he is debilitated. O Brahmin, if the 2nd from Upa Pad is related to a benefic, the wife will be beautiful, fortunate and virtuous. 1. Should ?ani and Rahu be in the 2nd from Upa Pad, the native will lose his wife on account of calumny, or through death. 2. The native’s wife will be troubled by disorder of blood, leucorrhoea (Pradar) etc., if ?ukr and Ketu are in the 2nd from Upa Pad. 3. Budh with Ketu in the 2nd from Upa Pad will cause breakage of bones, while Rahu, ?ani and S?rya will cause distress of bones. 19-22. Budh and Rahu in the 2nd from Upa Pad will give a stout-bodied wife. If the 2nd from Upa Pad happens to be one of Budh’s R??is and is tenanted by Mangal and ?ani, the wife of the native will suffer from nasal disorders. Similarly a R??i of Mangal, becoming the 2nd from Upa Pad and occupied by Mangal and ?ani, will cause nasal disorders to one’s wife. Guru and ?ani will, if be in the 2nd from Upa Pad, cause disorders of ears and/or eyes to the wife. If Budh and Mangal are placed in the 2nd from Upa Pad other than their own R??is, or, if Rahu is with Guru in the 2nd from Upa Pad, the native’s wife will suffer from dental disorders. ?ani and Rahu together in one of ?ani’s R??is, which is the 2nd from Upa Pad, will cause lameness, or windy disorders to the native’s wife.These evils will not come to pass, if there happens to be a Yuti with, or a Drishti from a benefic (or from another benefic in the case of affliction being caused by a benefic himself). 23-23?. O Brahmin, all these effects be deduced from the natal Lagn, Lagn Pad, the 7th from Upa Pad and the Lords thereof. So say Narada and others. 25-28. About Sons. If ?ani, Candr and Budh are together in the 9th from one of the said places (Sloka 23), there will be no son at all, while S?rya, Guru and Rahu so placed will give a number of sons. Candr so placed will give a son, while a mixture of Grahas will delay the obtainment of a son. The son, caused by the Yuti of S?rya, Guru and Rahu, will be strong, valorous, greatly successful and will destroy enemies. If Mangal and ?ani are in the said 9th, there will be no son, or a son will be obtained by adoption, or brother’s son will come in adoption. In all these cases odd R??is will yield many sons, while even R??is will cause only a few. 29-30. Many Sons and Many Daughters. O Brahmin, if Simh happens to be Upa Pad and receives a Drishti from Candr, there will be a limited number of children. Similarly Kanya will cause many daughters. 1. Co-born form Lagn Pad (up to Sloka 36). Rahu and ?ani in the 3rd, or the 11th from Lagn Pad will destroy the co-born of the native. Rahu and ?ani in the 11th will indicate the destruction of elder brothers and/or sisters and in the 3rd younger ones. 2. If ?ukr is in the 3rd, or the 11th from Lagn Pad, there would have been an abortion to the mother earlier. Same is the effect, if ?ukr is in the 8th from natal Lagn, or from Lagn Pad. 33-36. These are the effects, o Brahmin, as stated by Maharishis for the 3rd and the 11th from Lagn Pad. Should Candr, Guru, Budh and Mangal be in the 3rd, or the 11th from Lagn Pad, there will be many valorous co-born. Should ?ani and Mangal be in the 3rd, or the 11th from Lagn Pad, or give Drishtis thereto, younger and elder co-born will, respectively, be destroyed. If ?ani is alone in one of the said Bhavas, the native will be spared, while the co-born will die. Ketu in the 3rd, or the 11th will give abundant happiness from one’s sisters. 1. Other Matters from Lagn Pad (up to Sloka 43). If the 6th from Lagn Pad is occupied by a malefic and is bereft of aYuti with, or a Drishti from a benefic, the native will be a thief. 2. If Rahu is in the 7th, or the 12th from Lagn Pad, or gives a Drishti to one of the said Bhavas, the native will be endowed with spiritual knowledge and be very fortunate. 3. If Budh is in Lagn Pad, the native will Lord over a whole country, while Guru will make him a knower of all things. ?ukr in this context denotes a poet/speaker (also see Ch. 29, verse 30). 4. O excellent of the Brahmins, if benefics occupy the 2nd from Upa Pad, or from Lagn Pad, the native will be endowed with all kinds of wealth and be intelligent. 5. One will surely become a thief, if the Lord of the 2nd from Upa Pad is in Dhan Bhava and is there yuti with a malefic Grah. 42-43. O Brahmin, if Rahu is in the 2nd from the Lord of the 7th, counted from Upa Pad, the native will have long and projected teeth. Ketu in the 2nd from the Lord of the 7th, counted from Upa Pad, will cause stammering and ?ani in the 2nd from the Lord of the 7th, counted from Upa Pad, will make one look ugly. Mixed will be the effects, if there are mixed Grahas. Ch. 31. Argala, or Intervention from Grahas 1. O Maharishi Parashar, you have told of auspicious effects, related to Argala. Kindly narrate its conditions and effects. 2-9. Formation ofArgala. Maitreya, I explain belowArgala to know the definite effects of Bhavas and Grahas. Grahas in the 4th, 2nd and the 11th causeArgalas, while obstructors of theArgala will be those in the 10th, 12th and 3rd from a Bhava, or a Grah. If the Argala causing Grah is stronger than the obstructing one, the former will prevail. Or, if the number ofArgalas are more than the obstructing Grahas, then also the Argala will prevail. If there are 3, or more malefics in the 3rd they will cause VipreetArgala (more effective intervention), which will also be harmless and be very favourable.The 5th is also an Argala place, while the Grah in the 9th will counteract such Argala. As Rahu and Ketu have retrograde motions, theArgalas and obstructions be also counted accordingly in a reverse manner. Maharishis say, that the Argala, caused by one Grah, will yield limited effect, by two medium and by more than two, excellent effects. Argalas should be counted from a R??i, or a Grah, as the case may be. TheArgala, which is unobstructed will be fruitful, while the one duly obstructed will go astray. The Argala effects will be derived in the Dasha periods of the R??i, or Grah concerned. Notes. ‘Argala’ in Sanskrit is figuratively used to denote an impediment, or obstruction. Some suggest, that the Argala obstruction places are countable from the Argala place instead of from the original place, or Grah.This is not logical and a glance into Gochar Vedha (obstructions during transits) will confirm our findings. 10. Special. The Argala, caused by placement of a Grah in the first one fourth part of the R??i, is countered by another, placed in the 4th quarter of the respective obstructive R??i. Similarly 2nd quarter’sArgala is eliminated by the 3rd quarter placement of another Grah. Notes. If the Argala causing Grah and the obstructing Grah are in the respective quarters, the obstruction will come to pass. Otherwise not. 11-17. Argala Effects. Should there beArgala for the Arudh Pad, for the natal Lagn and for the 7th from both, the native will be famous and fortunate. A malefic, or a benefic, causing unobstructed Argala, giving a Drishti to Lagn will make one famous. Similarly a malefic, or a benefic, causing unobstructed Argala, giving a Drishti to Dhan Bhava denotes acquisition of wealth and grains, to Sahaj Bhava happiness from co-born, to Bandhu Bhava residences, quadrupeds and relatives, to Putr Bhava sons, grand sons and intelligence, to Ari Bhava fear from enemies, to Yuvati Bhava abundant wealth and marital happiness, to Randhr Bhava difficulties, to Dharm Bhava fortunes, to Karm Bhava royal honour, to Labh Bhava gains and to Vyaya Bhava expenses. The Argala by benefics will give various kinds of happiness, while benefic effects will be meddling with maleficArgalas.Argala by both benefics and malefics will yield results. Notes. 1. Argala can be caused by a benefic, which is known, as Subh Argala.This Argala can be from a malefic also, so that the benefic, causingArgala, stalls the malefic role. If the benefic’sArgala is obstructed by another, then the benefic will become ineffective in Argala and the first-mentioned malefic will operate freely. 2.Argala can be by a malefic with reference to a benefic, so that the native does not enjoy good effects, due to the benefic.This is Pap (malefic)Argala. If the Argala is eliminated by a benefic, or a malefic, then the first mentioned benefic will be at liberty to act, according to his own disposition. 18. Should there be (unobstructed)Argala for Lagn, Putr and Dharm Bhava, the native will doubtlessly become a king and fortunate. Ch. 32. Karakatwas of the Grahas 1-2. I now detail belowAtma Karak etc., obtainable from among the 7 Grahas, viz. S?rya to ?ani. Some say, that Rahu will become a Karak, when there is a state of similarity in terms of longitude between (two) Grahas. Yet some say, that the 8 Grahas, including Rahu, will have to be considered irrespective of such a state. 3-8. Atma Karak Defined.Among the Grahas from S?rya etc. whichever has traversed maximum number of degrees in a particular R??i is calledAtma Karak. If the degrees are identical, then the one with more minutes of arc and, if the minutes are also identical, then the one with higher seconds of arc, have to be considered. In that case these three are called Anthya Karak, Madhya Karak and Upakheta. In the case of Rahu deduct his longitude in that particular R??i from 30. The Karakas will have to be decided, as above and, as per further rules given below. Out of these Karakas,Atma Karak is the most important and has a prime say on the native, just as the king is the most famous among the men of his country and is the head of all affairs and is entitled to arrest and release men. 9-12. Importance ofAtma Karak. O Brahmin, as the minister cannot go against the king, the other Karakas, viz. Putr Karak,Amatya Karak etc. cannot predominate overAtma Karak in the affairs of the native. If the Atma Karak is adverse, other Karakas cannot give their benefic effects. Similarly, ifAtma Karak is favourable, other Karakas cannot predominate with their malefic influences. 13-17. Other Karakas. The Grah next to Atma Karak in terms of longitude is called Amatya Karak. Similarly following one another in terms of longitude are Bhratru Karak, Matru Karak, Pitru Karak, Putr Karak, Gnati Karak and Stri Karak. These are Char Karakas, or inconstant significators. Some consider Matru Karak and Putr Karak, as identical. If two Grahas have the same longitude, both become the same Karak, in which case there will be a deficit of one Karak. In that circumstance consider constant significator in the context of benefic/malefic influence for the concerned relative. 18-21. Constant Karakatwas. I narrate below the constant Karakatwas, as related to the Grahas. The stronger among S?rya and ?ukr indicates the father, while the stronger among Candr and Mangal indicates the mother. Mangal denotes sister, brother-in-law, younger brother and mother. Budh rules maternal relative, while Guru indicates paternal grand father. Husband and sons are, respectively, denoted by ?ukr and ?ani. From Ketu note wife, father, mother, parents-in law and maternal grand father. These are constant Karakatwas. 22-24. Bhavas Related. These constant significances are derivable from the Bhavas, counted from the said constant Karakatwas. The 9th from S?rya denotes father, the 4th from Candr mother, the 3rd from Mangal brothers, the 6th from Budh maternal uncle, the 5th from Guru sons, the 7th from ?ukr wife and the 8th from ?ani death. The learned should consider all these and declare related effects accordingly. 25-30. Yog Karakas. O Brahmin, I make below a passing reference to Yog Karakas (mutual co-workers). Grahas become Yog Karakas, if they are in mutual angles identical with own R??is, exaltation R??is, or friendly R??is. In Karm Bhava a Grah will be significantly so. Grahas simply (not being in friendly, own, or exaltation R??is) in Lagn, Bandhu andYuvati Bhava do not become suchYog Karakas. Even, if they be placed in other Bhavas, but with such dignities, as mentioned, shall becomeYog Karakas. With such Grahas even a person of mean birth will become a king and be affluent. One born of royal scion, then will surely become a king. Thus the effects be declared, considering the number of such Grahas and the order the native belongs to. 31-34. Bhava Significance. I now narrate the significance of the Bhavas. Tanu Bhava denotes the soul (self), Dhan family, finance, wife etc., Sahaj younger brothers/sisters, Putr progeny and Yuvati wife. It is also said, that a Grah in Putr becomes a Karak for wife.The Karakatwas of the Bhava in order are S?rya, Guru, Mangal, Candr, Guru, Mangal, ?ukr, ?ani, Guru, Budh, Guru and ?ani. 35-37. O excellent of the Brahmins, after knowing the merits ofTanu Bhava etc. the good and bad effects can be declared. Ari, Randhr andVyaya are Trikas, Dusthan, or malefic Bhavas. Sahaj, Ari, Karm and Labh are Upachayas. Dhan, Putr, Randhr and Labh are Panapharas and Sahaj, Ari, Dharm and Vyaya are Apoklimas. Association with Trikas will inflict evils. Kendras and Konas (Putr and Dharm) are auspicious Bhavas, the association with which turns even evil into auspiciousness. (Also see Ch. 34 for more information) Ch. 33. Effects of Karak??? 1. O Brahmin, as laid down by Lord Brahma, I now tell you about the effects of Karak??? identical with Mesh etc. (Karak??? is the Nav???, occupied by the Atma Karak Grah) 2-8. Karak??? in Various R??is. IfAtma Karak happens to be in Mesh Nav???, there will be nuisance from rats and cats at all times.A malefic joining will further increase the nuisance. Should Atma Karak be in Vrishabh Nav???, happiness from quadrupeds will result. Should Atma Karak be in Mithun Nav???, the native will be afflicted by itch etc. Should Atma Karak be in Kark Nav???, there will be fear from water etc. IfAtma Karak happens to be in Simh Nav???, fear will be from tiger etc. IfAtma Karak happens to be in Kanya Nav???, itch, corpulence, fire etc. will cause trouble, while, ifAtma Karak is in Tula Nav???, he will make one a trader and skilful in making robes etc. Vrischik Nav???, holding Atma Karak, will bring troubles from snakes etc. and also affliction to mother’s breasts. There will be falls from height and conveyances etc., if it is Dhanu Nav???, that is occupied byAtma Karak. Makar Nav??? in this respect denotes gains from water dwelling beings and conch, pearl, coral etc. If it is Kumbh Nav???, holding Atma Karak, the native will construct tanks etc. And in Meen Nav??? the Atma Karak will grant final emancipation. The Drishti of a benefic will remove evils, while that of a malefic will cause no good. 9-11. O Brahmin, if there be only benefics in Karak??? and the Nav??? of Lagn receives a Drishti from a benefic, the native will undoubtedly become a king. Should the Kendras/Konas from the Karak??? be occupied by benefics, devoid of malefic association, the native will be endowed with wealth and learning. The combination of benefic and malefic influence will in this context yield mixed results. If the Upakheta (UpaGrah, vide Ch.32 Sloka 5) is in its exaltation, or own, or friendly R??i and is devoid of a Drishti from a malefic, the native will go to heaven after death. 12. If the Atma Karak is in the divisions of Candr, Mangal, or ?ukr, the native will go to others wives. Otherwise the contrary will prevail. 13-18. Effects of Grahas in the Karak???. O Brahmin, if S?rya is in the Karak???, the native will be engaged in royal assignments. If the full Candr is there, he will enjoy pleasures and be a scholar, more so, if ?ukr gives a Drishti to the Karak???. If strong Mangal is in Karak???, he will use the weapon spear, will live through fire and be an alchemist. Should strong Budh be Karak???, he will be skilful in arts and trading, be intelligent and educated. Guru in Karak??? denotes one, doing good acts, endowed with spiritualism and Vedic learning. One will be endowed with a longevity of 100 years, be sensuous and will look after state affairs, if ?ukr is in Karak???. ?ani in Karak??? will give such livelihood, as due to the natives family. Rahu in Karak??? denotes a thief, a bowman, a machinery maker and a doctor, treating poisonous afflictions. If Ketu be in Karak???, one will deal in elephants and be a thief. 19-22. Rahu-S?rya in Karak???. Should Rahu and S?rya be in Karak???, there will be fear from snakes. If a benefic gives a Drishti to Rahu-S?rya in Karak???, there will be no fear, but a malefic Drishti will bring death (through serpents). If Rahu and S?rya occupy benefic Shad Vargas, being in Karak???, one will be a doctor, treating poisonous afflictions, while the Drishti from Mangal on Rahu-S?rya in Karak??? denotes, that the native will burn either his own house, or that of others. Budh’s Drishti on Rahu-S?rya in Karak??? will not cause the burning of one’s own house, but that of others. If Rahu and S?rya happen to be in Karak??? and are in a malefic’s R??i, receiving a Drishti from Guru, one will burn a house in one’s neighbourhood, while the Drishti of ?ukr will not cause such an event. 23-24. Gulik in Karak???. Should the full Candr give a Drishti to Gulik, placed in the Karak???, the native will lose his wealth to thieves, or will himself be a thief. If Gulik is in Karak???, but does not receive a Drishti from others, one will administer poison to others, or will himself die of poisoning. Budh’s Drishti in this context will give large testicles. 25-29. Effects of Drishtis on Ketu in Karak???. If Ketu is in Karak???, receiving a Drishti from a malefic, ones ears will be severed, or one will suffer from diseases of the ears. ?ukr, giving a Drishti to Ketu in Karak???, denotes one, initiated into religious order. One will be devoid of strength, if Budh and ?ani give a Drishti to Ketu in Karak???. If Budh and ?ukr give a Drishti to Ketu in Karak???, one will be the son of a female slave, or of a female remarried. With ?ani’s Drishti on Ketu in Karak??? one will perform penance, or be a servant, or will be a pseudo-ascetic. ?ukr and S?rya together, giving a Drishti to Ketu in Karak???, will make one serve the king. Thus, o Brahmin, are told briefly the effects of Karak???. 30-31. Effects of the 2nd from Karak???. If the 2nd from Karak??? falls in the divisions of ?ukr, or Mangal, one will be addicted to others’ wives and, if ?ukr, or Mangal give a Drishti to the 2nd from Karak???, the tendency will last till death. If Ketu is the 2nd from Karak??? in a division of ?ukr, or Mangal, addiction to other’s wives will not prevail, while the position of Guru will cause such an evil. Rahu in the 2nd from Karak??? will destroy wealth. 32. Effects of the 3rd from Karak???.A malefic in the 3rd from Karak??? will make one valorous, while a benefic in the 3rd from Karak??? will make one timid. 33-35. Effects of the 4th from Karak???. If the 4th from Karak??? happens to be occupied by ?ukr and Candr, one will own large buildings, like palaces etc. Similar is the effect of an exalted Grah in the said 4th. A house, made of stones, is denoted by the occupation of the 4th from Karak??? by Rahu and ?ani. Mangal and Ketu in the 4th from Karak??? indicate a house, made of bricks, while Guru in the 4th from Karak??? denotes a house, made of wood. S?rya in the 4th from Karak??? will give a house of grass. If Candr is in the 4th from Karak???, one will have union with his wife in an uncompounded house. 36-40. Effects of the 5th from Karak???. If Rahu and Mangal are in the 5th from Karak???, one will suffer from a pulmonary consumption, more so, if Candr gives them a Drishti. The Drishti of Mangal on the 5th from Karak??? will bring boils, or ulcers, Ketu’s Drishti on the 5th from Karak??? will cause dysentery and other diseases, caused by (impure) water. If Rahu and Gulik happen to be in the 5th from Karak???, there will be fear from mean people and poison. Should Budh be in the 5th from Karak???, the native will be an ascetic of the highest order, or one, holding staff. S?rya in the 5th from Karak??? denotes one, using a knife. Mangal in the 5th from Karak??? denotes one, using a spear. ?ani denotes a bowman, if ?ani is placed in the 5th from Karak???. Rahu in the 5th from Karak??? denotes a machinist. Ketu in the 5th from Karak??? denotes a watch maker. ?ukr in the 5th from Karak??? will make one a poet and an eloquent speaker. 41-45. Effects of Karak??? and the 5th from there. If Guru and Candr are in Karak???, or the 5th thereof, the native will be an author. ?ukr will make one an ordinary writer, while Budh will indicate, that the writing skills are less than those of an ordinary writer. Should Guru be alone, one will be a knower of everything, be a writer and be versed in Vedas and Vedanta philosophy, but not an oratorian, or a grammarian. Mangal denotes a logician, Budh a Mimamsaka (follower of Karma Mimansa), ?ani indicates, that one is dull-witted in the assembly, S?rya denotes, that one is a musician, Candr denotes a follower of Sankhya philosophy (of Maharishi Kapila, who enumerated 25 true principles with emphasis on final bliss) and indicates, that one is versed in rhetorics and singing and Ketu, or Rahu denotes, that one is a Jyotishi. Should Guru be related to the positions of Karak???, or the 5th from there, while the Karak??? is caused by others than him, the effects, as stated, will effectively come to pass. Some say, that the 2nd from Karak??? should also be similarly considered. 46. Effects of the 6th from Karak???. If the 6th from Karak??? is occupied by a malefic, the native will be an agriculturist, while he will be indolent, if a benefic is in the 6th from Karak???. The 3rd from Karak??? should also be similarly considered. 47-48. Effects of the 7th from Karak???. If Candr and Guru are in the 7th from Karak???, the native will beget a very beautiful wife. ?ukr in the 7th form Karak??? denotes a sensuous wife, while Budh in the 7th from Karak??? indicates a wife, versed in arts. S?rya in the 7th from Karak??? will give a wife, who will be confining domestic core, while ?ani in the 7th from Karak??? denotes a wife of a higher age bracket, or a pious and/or sick wife. Rahu in the 7th from Karak??? will bring a widow in marriage. 49. Effects of the 8th from Karak???. If a benefic, or the Grah, owning the 8th from Karak???, happens to be in the 8th from Karak???, the native will be long-lived, while a malefic, placed in the 8th from Karak???, will reduce the life span. Drishti/Yuti of both benefics and malefics will yield a medium span of life. 50-56. Effects of the 9th from Karak???. If the 9th from Karak??? receives a Drishti from, or is occupied by a benefic, the native will be truthful, devoted to elders and attached to his own religion. If a malefic gives a Drishti to, or occupies the 9th from Karak???, one will be attached to his religion in boyhood, but will take to falsehood in old age. If ?ani and Rahu, one will betray his elders and be adverse to ancient learning. If Guru and S?rya, one will betray his elders and will be disobedient to them. Should Mangal and ?ukr give a Drishti to, or occupy the 9th from Karak??? and are joining in six identicalVargas, a female, ill-related to the native, will die. Budh and Candr giving a Drishti to, or occupying the 9th from Karak??? and joining in six identicalVargas will cause imprisonment of the native, due to association with a female not of his own. If Guru is alone, related to the 9th from Karak??? by Drishti, or by Yuti, the native will be addicted to females and be devoted to sensual enjoyments. 57-60. Effects of the 10th from Karak???. If the 10th from Karak??? receives a Drishti from, or is conjoined by a benefic, the native will have firm riches, be sagacious, strong and intelligent. A malefic, giving a Drishti to the 10th from Karak???, or occupying this Bhava, will cause harm to his profession and deprive him of paternal bliss. Budh and ?ukr, giving a Drishti to the 10th from Karak???, or conjoining this Bhava, will confer many gains in business and will make him do many great deeds. S?rya and Candr, giving a Drishti to the 10th from Karak???, or conjoining this place and receiving a Drishti from, or be in Yuti with Guru, the native will acquire a kingdom. 61-62. Effects of the 11th from Karak???. If the 11th from Karak??? receives a Drishti from, or is yuti with a benefic, the native will enjoy happiness from co-born apart from gaining in every undertaking of his. If a malefic is in the 11th from Karak???, the native will gain by questionable means, be famous and valorous. 63-74. Effects of the 12th from Karak???. If the 12th from Karak??? has a benefic, the expenses will be on good account, while a malefic in the 12th from Karak??? will cause bad expenses. If the 12th from Karak??? is vacant, then also good effects will follow. If there happens to be a benefic Grah in exaltation, or in own Bhava in the 12th from Karak???, or, if Ketu is so placed and receives a Drishti from, or is yuti with a benefic, one will attain heaven after death. One will attain full enlightenment, if Ketu is in the 12th identical with Mesh, or Dhanu and receives a Drishti from a benefic. If Ketu is in the 12th from Karak???, receiving a Drishti from a malefic, or is there yuti with a malefic, one will not attain full enlightenment. If S?rya and Ketu are in the 12th from Karak???, the native will worship Lord Shiva. Candr and Ketu denotes a worshiper of Gauri. ?ukr and Ketu of Lakshmi and a wealthy person. Mangal and Ketu of Lord Subramanya. Rahu will make one worship Durga, or some mean deity. Ketu alone denotes Subramanya’s, or Ganesh’s worshipper. If ?ani is in the 12th from Karak??? in a malefic’s R??i, one will worship mean deities. ?ukr and ?ani in the 12th from Karak??? in a malefic’s R??i will also make one worship mean deities. Similar inferences can be drawn from the 6th Nav???, counted fromAmatya Karak’s Nav???. 75-76. Miscellaneous Matters (up to Sloka 84). O Brahmin, if there are two malefics in a Kon from Karak???, the native will have knowledge of Mantras and Tantras (formulas for the attainment of super-human powers). If a malefic simultaneously gives a Drishti to two malefics in a Kon from Karak???, the native will use his learnings of Mantras and Tantras for malevolent purposes, while a benefic’s Drishti will make him use the learnings for public good. 77-84?. If Candr is in the Karak???, receiving a Drishti from ?ukr, the native will be an alchemist and, if receiving a Drishti from Budh the native will be a doctor capable of curing all diseases. If Candr is in the 4th from Karak??? and receives a Drishti from ?ukr, the native will be afflicted by white leprosy. If receiving a Drishti from Mangal, the native will have blood and bilious disorders and, if receiving a Drishti from Ketu, the native will suffer from black leprosy. Should Rahu and Mangal be in the 4th, or 5th from Karak???, the native will suffer from pulmonary consumption and, if simultaneously there happens to be Candr’s Drishti on the 4th, or the 5th, this affliction will be certain. Mangal alone in the 4th, or the 5th will cause ulcers. If Ketu is in the 4th, or the 5th, one will suffer from dysentery and afflictions, due to (impure) water. Rahu and Gulik will make one a doctor, curing poisonous afflictions, or will cause troubles through poison. Should ?ani be alone in the 4th, or 5th, the native will be skillful in archery. Ketu lonely placed in the 4th, or the 5th will make one a maker of watches etc. Budh lonely placed in the 4th, or the 5th will make one an ascetic of the highest order, or an ascetic, holding staff. Rahu, S?rya and Mangal, respectively, in these places denote a machinist, a knife user and a spear, or arrow user. 85-86. Candr and Guru in the Karak???, or in the 5th therefrom denotes a writer well versed in all branches of learning. The grade of writership will comparatively descend in the case of ?ukr and even further in the case of Budh. 87-92?. Grahas in the 5th from Karak???. Should ?ukr be in the 5th from Karak???, the native will be eloquent and a poet. Guru denotes, that he be an exponent and be all knowing, but be unable to speak in an assembly. He will be further a grammarian and a scholar in Vedas and Upanishads. ?ani will make one ineffective in an assembly, while Budh will make him skilful in Karma Mimansa. Mangal in Karak???, or the 5th therefrom will make one justice, while Candr in Karak???, or the 5th from there denotes a Sankhya Yogi, a rhetoric, or a singer. S?rya in the 5th from Karak??? will make one learned in Vedanta and music. Ketu will make one a mathematician and skilful in Jyotish. Should Guru be related to the said Ketu, these learnings will be by inheritance. All these as well apply to 2nd and 3rd from Karak??? and to the Karak??? itself apart from applying to the 5th from Karak???. 93-93?. Should Ketu be in the 2nd, or 3rd from Karak???, the native will be defective in speech, more so, if a malefic gives a Drishti to Ketu, as above. 94-99. If malefics be in Karak???,Arudh Lagn and the 2nd and 8th from these places, there will be KemadrumYog, the effects of which will be still severer, if Candr’s Drishti happens to be there.The effects, due for these Yogas, will come to pass in the Dasha periods of the R??is, or Grahas concerned. KemadrumYog will operate additionally, if there are malefics in the 2nd and 8th from the R??i, whose Dasha will be in currency. The results of such Yog will also be inauspicious. If the 2nd and 8th in the Kundali, cast for the beginning of a Dasha, have malefics, then also Kemadrum prevails throughout the Dasha. Ch. 34. Yoga Karakas 1. O Brahmin, thus I have told you about the effects, derivable through Karak???. Now listen to the effects, arising out of lordships of Grahas over Bhavas. 2-7. Nature due to Lordships of Grahas. Benefics, owning Kendras, will not give benefic effects, while malefics, owning Kendras, will not remain inauspicious. The Lord of a Kon will give auspicious results. The Lord of Lagn is specially auspicious, as Lagn is a Kendr, as well as a Kon. Putr and Dharm Bhava are specially for wealth, while Yuvati and Karm Bhava are specially for happiness.Any Grah, owning Sahaj, Ari, or Labh Bhava, will give evil effects. The effects, due to the Lords ofVyaya and Randhr Bhava, will depend on their association. In each group the significance will be in the ascending order. Randhr’s Lord is not auspicious, as he owns the 12th from Dharm Bhava. If the Lord of Randhr Bhava simultaneously owns Sahaj, Yuvati, or Labh Bhava, he will prove specifically harmful, while his simultaneous ownership of a Kon will bestow auspicious effects. The Grah, owning a predominant Bhava, will stall the effects, due to another, owning a less significant Bhava and will give his own results. Randhr’s lordship of S?rya and Candr is not evil. 8-10. Natural Benefics and Malefics. Guru and ?ukr are benefics, while Candr is mediocre in benefice and Budh is neutral (a benefic, when associated with a benefic and a malefic, when related to a malefic). Malefics are S?rya, ?ani and Mangal. Full Candr, Budh, Guru and ?ukr are stronger in the ascending order. Weak Candr, S?rya, ?ani and Mangal are stronger (in malefic disposition) in the ascending order. In revealing maleficence, due to rulership of Kendras, Candr, Budh, Guru and ?ukr are significant in the ascending order. 11-12. Lordships of Kendras and Konas. If there be an exchange between a Lord of a Kendr and a Lord of a Kon, or, if a Lord of a Kendr is yuti with a Lord of a Kon in a Kendr, or in a Kon, or, if a Lord of a Kon is in a Kendr, or vice versa, or, if there happens to be a full Drishti between a Lord of a Kendr and a Lord of a Kon, they cause a Yog. One born in such a Yog will become a king and be famous. 1. If one and the same Grah gets the lordships of a Kon, as well as a Kendr, or, if a Grah is in a Kendr, or in a Kon, it will prove specially a Yog Karak. 2. Lordship of Kendr. It has been said, that a malefic, owning a Kendr, will become auspicious, which is true, only when it simultaneously Lords over a Kon and not by merely owning a Kendr. 3. If the Lords of a Kendr, or a Kon own simultaneously an evil Bhava, he does not cause a RajYog by mere relations stipulated (as per Ch. 34, Slokas 11 and 12). 4. Rahu and Ketu. Rahu and Ketu give predominantly the effects, as due to their yuti with a Bhava Lord, or, as due to the Bhava they occupy. 5. If Rahu and/or Ketu are in Kendr, receiving a Drishti from, or in association with the Lord of a Kon, or of a Kendr, it will becomeYog Karak. 6. O Maharishi Parashar, please narrate, according to the R??is rising, as to which Grah is a Yog Karak and which is inauspicious. 19-22. Grahas and Mesh Lagn. O Brahmin, listen to these with examples. Even though Mangal is the Lord of Randhr Bhava, he will be helpful to auspicious Grahas. ?ani, Budh and ?ukr are malefics. Auspicious are Guru and S?rya. The mereYuti of ?ani with Guru will not produce auspicious effects (although they own a Kon and a Kendr). If Guru is at the disposal of a malefic, he will surely give inauspicious results. ?ukr is a direct (independent) killer. ?ani etc. will also inflict death, if associated with an adverse Grah (?ukr). 23-24. Grahas and Vrishabh Lagn. Guru, ?ukr and Candr are malefics. ?ani and S?rya are auspicious. ?ani will cause RajYog. Budh is somewhat inauspicious. The Guru group (Guru, Candr and ?ukr) and Mangal will inflict death. 25-26. Grahas and Mithun Lagn. Mangal, Guru and S?rya are malefics, while ?ukr is the only auspicious Grah. The Yuti of Guru with ?ani is similar to that for Mesh Lagn. Candr is the prime killer, but it is dependant on her association. 27-28. Grahas and Kark Lagn. ?ukr and Budh are malefics, Mangal, Guru and Candr are auspicious. Mangal is capable of conferring a full-fledged Yog and giving auspicious effects. ?ani and S?rya are killers and give effects, according to their associations. 29-30. Grahas and Simh Lagn. Budh, ?ukr and ?ani are malefics.Auspicious effects will be given by Mangal, Guru and S?rya. Guru’sYuti with ?ukr (though, respectively, Kon and Kendr Lords) will not produce auspicious results. ?ani and Candr are killers, who will give effects, according to their associations. 31-32. Grahas and Kanya Lagn. Mangal, Guru and Candr are malefics, while Budh and ?ukr are auspicious. ?ukr’sYuti with Budh will produceYog. ?ukr is a killer as well. S?rya’s role will depend on his association. 33-34. Grahas and Tula Lagn. Guru, S?rya and Mangal are malefics. Auspicious are ?ani and Budh. Candr and Budh will cause RajYog. Mangal is a killer. Guru and other malefics will also acquire a disposition to inflict death. ?ukr is neutral. 35-36. Grahas and Vrischik Lagn. ?ukr, Budh and ?ani are malefics. Guru and Candr are auspicious. S?rya, as well as Candr are Yog Karakas. Mangal is neutral. ?ukr and other malefics acquire the quality of causing death. 37-38. Grahas and Dhanu Lagn. Only ?ukr is inauspicious. Mangal and S?rya are auspicious. S?rya and Budh are capable of conferring a Yog. ?ani is a killer, Guru is neutral. ?ukr acquires killing powers. 39-40. Grahas and Makar Lagn. Mangal, Guru and Candr are malefics, ?ukr and Budh are auspicious. ?ani will not be a killer on his own. Mangal and other malefics will inflict death. S?rya is neutral. Only ?ukr is capable of causing a superiorYog. 41-42. Grahas and Kumbh Lagn. Guru, Candr and Mangal are malefics, while ?ukr and ?ani are auspicious. ?ukr is the only Grah, that causes RajYog. Guru, S?rya and Mangal are killers. Budh gives meddling effects. 43-44. Grahas and Meen Bhava. ?ani, ?ukr, S?rya and Budh are malefics. Mangal and Candr are auspicious. Mangal and Guru will cause aYog.Though Mangal is a killer, he will not kill the native (independently). ?ani and Budh are killers. 45-46. General. Thus the auspicious and inauspicious effects, derivable through the Grahas, due to their lordship, according to the rising R??i, have to be estimated.Apart the effects, due to Nabhash Yogas etc., should also be known, which I narrate, as under. Ch. 35. Nabhash Yogas 1-2. O excellent of the Brahmins, explained below are 32 Nabhash Yogas, which have a total of 1800 different varieties. These consist of 3 Asraya Yogas, 2 Dala Yogas, 20 AkritiYogas and 7 Sankhya Yogas. 3-6. Names of NabhashYogas. The 3 Asraya Yogas are Rajju, Musala and Nala Yogas. The 2 DalaYogas are Maal and Sarpa. The 20 AkritiYogas are Gada, Sakat, Shringatak, Vihag, Hal, Vajr, Kamal, Vapi, Yup, Shar, Shakti, Danda, Nisk, Koot, Chatr, Dhanushi (Chap), Ardh, Candr, Chakr and SamudrYogas. The 7 Sankhya Yogas are Vallaki, Daam, Paash, Kedara, Sool, Yuga and GolaYogas. Thus these are 32 in total. 1. Rajju, Musala and Nala Yogas.All the Grahas in Movable R??is cause Rajju Yog. All the Grahas in Fixed R??is cause MusalaYog. All the Grahas in Dual R??is cause Nala Yog. 2. Maal and Sarpa Yogas. If 3 Kendras are occupied by benefics, MaalYog is produced, while malefics so placed will cause Bhujang, or Sarpa Yog. TheseYogas, respectively, produce benefic and malefic results. 9-11. Gada, Sakat, Vihag, Shringatak, Hal, Vajr andYavYogas. If all the Grahas occupy two successive Kendras, GadaYog is formed. SakatYog occurs, when all the Grahas are disposed in Lagn andYuvati Bhava. If all confine to Bandhu and Karm Bhava, then VihagYog occurs.All Grahas in Lagn, Putr and Dharm Bhava cause ShringatakYog, while all Grahas in Dhan,Ari and Karm Bhava, or in Sahaj, Yuvati and Labh Bhava, or in Bandhu, Randhr andVyaya Bhava cause HalYog. VajrYog is caused by all benefics in Lagn andYuvati Bhava, or all malefics in Bandhu and Karm Bhava. In a contrary situation, i.e. all benefics in Bandhu and Karm Bhava, or all malefics in Lagn andYuvati Bhava,YavYog is generated. 12. Kamal and VapiYogas. If all the Grahas are in the 4 Kendras, KamalYog is produced. If all of them happen to be in all the Apoklimas, or in all the Panapharas,Vapi Yog occurs. 13.Yup, Shar, Shakti and DandaYogas. If all the 7 Grahas are in the 4 Bhavas, commencing from Lagn, they causeYup Yog, if from Bandhu, SharYog occurs, if from Yuvati, ShaktiYog occurs and, if from Karm, Danda Yog is formed. 14. Nauka, Koot, Chatr and Chap Yogas. If all the Grahas occupy the seven Bhavas from Lagn, NaukaYog occurs, if from Bandhu, KootYog is formed, if fromYuvati, ChatrYog occurs and, if from Karm, Chap Yog occurs. Here again the Grahas should occupy seven continuous Bhavas. Quoted from Saravali. If the seven Grahas occupy continuously seven Bhavas, commencing from a Bhava, which is not angular to the Lagna, the Yoga produced is known, asArdh Candra Yoga. 15. Chakr and SamudrYogas. If all the Grahas occupy six alternative R??is, commencing from Lagn, ChakrYog is formed. SamudrYog is produced, if all Grahas occupy six alternative R??is, commencing from Dhan Bhava. 16-17. Sankhya Yogas. If all Grahas are in one R??i, Gola Yog is formed, if in 2, Yuga Yog is formed, if in 3, SoolYog occurs, if in 4, KedaraYog occurs, if in 5, Paash Yog is formed, if in 6, DaamYog occurs and, if in 7, Veena Yog is produced. None of these sevenYogas will be operable, if another Nabhash Yog is derivable. 1. Effects of Nabhash Yogas (up to Sloka 50). Rajju Yog. One born in Rajju Yog will be fond of wandering, be charming, will earn in foreign countries. He will be cruel and mischievous. 2. Musala Yog. One born in MusalaYog will be endowed with honour, wisdom, wealth etc., be dear to king, famous, will have many sons and be firm in disposition. 3. Nala Yog. One born in Nala Yog will have uneven physique, be interested in accumulating money, very skilful, helpful to relatives and charming. 1. MaalYog. One born in MaalYog will be ever happy, endowed with conveyances, robes, food and pleasures, be splendourous and endowed with many females. 2. SarpaYog. One born in Sarpa Yog will be crooked, cruel, poor, miserable and will depend on others for food and drinks. 3. Gada Yog. One born in Gada Yog will always make efforts to earn wealth, will perform sacrificial rites, be skilful in Shastras and songs and endowed with wealth, gold and precious stones. 4. SakatYog. One born in SakatYog will be afflicted by diseases, will have diseased, or ugly nails, be foolish, will live by pulling carts, be poor and devoid of friends and relatives. 5. Vihag Yog. One born in Vihag Yog will be fond of roaming, be a messenger, will live by sexual dealings, be shameless and interested in quarrels. 6. Shringatak Yog. One born in ShringatakYog will be fond of quarrels and battles, be happy, dear to king, endowed with an auspicious wife, be rich and will hate women. 7. HalYog. One born in HalYog will eat a lot, will be very poor, will be miserable, agitated, given up by friends and relatives. He will be a servant. 8. VajrYog. One born in VajrYog will be happy in the beginning and at the end of life, be valorous, charming, devoid of desires and fortunes and be inimical. 29.Yav Yog. One born in YavYog will observe fasts and other religious rules, will do auspicious acts, will obtain happiness, wealth and sons in his mid-life. He will be charitable and firm. 1. KamalYog. One born in KamalYog will be rich and virtuous, be long lived, very famous and pure. He will perform hundreds of auspicious acts and he will be a king. 2. VapiYog. One born in VapiYog will be capable of accumulating wealth, be endowed with lasting wealth and happiness and sons, be free from eye afflictions and will be a king. 32.Yup Yog. One born in Yup Yog will have spiritual knowledge and will be interested in sacrificial rites. He will be endowed with a wife, be strong, interested in fasts and other religious observations and be distinguished. 1. SharYog. One born in SharYog will make arrows, be head of a prison, will earn through animals, will eat meat, will indulge in torture and mean handiworks. 34. ShaktiYog. One born in ShaktiYog will be bereft of wealth, be unsuccessful, miserable, mean, lazy, long lived, interested and skilful in war, firm and auspicious. 35. Danda Yog. One born in Danda Yog will lose sons and wife, will be indigent, unkind, away from his men and will serve mean people. 36. Nauka Yog. One born in Nauka Yog will derive his livelihood through water, be wealthy, famous, wicked, wretched, dirty and miserly. 37. KootYog. One born in KootYog will be a liar, will head a jail, be poor, crafty, cruel and will live in hills and fortresses. 38. ChatrYog. One born in ChatrYog will help his own men, be kind, dear to many kings, very intelligent, happy at the beginning and end of his life and be long-lived. 39. Chap Yog. One born in ChapYog will be liar, will protect secrets, be a thief, be fond of wandering, forests, be devoid of luck and be happy in the middle of the life. 40.Ardh CandrYog. One born in Ardh CandrYog will lead an Army, will possess a splendourous body, be dear to king, be strong and endowed with gems, gold and ornaments. 1. ChakrYog. One born in ChakrYog will be an emperor, at whose feet will be the prostrating kings, heads, adoring gem studded diadems. 2. SamudrYog. One born in SamudrYog will have many precious stones and abundant wealth, be endowed with pleasures, dear to people, will have firm wealth and be well disposed. 3. Veena Yog. One born in VeenaYog will be fond of songs, dance and musical instruments, be skilful, happy, wealthy and be a leader of men. 4. DaaminiYog. One born in DaaminiYog will be helpful to others, will have righteously earned wealth, be very affluent, famous, will have many sons and gems, be courageous and red-lettered. 5. Paash Yog. One born in PaashYog will be liable to be imprisoned, be skilful in work, be deceiving in disposition, will talk much, be bereft of good qualities and will have many servants. 1. Kedara Yog. One born in Kedara Yog will be useful to many, be an agriculturist, be truthful, happy, fickle-minded and wealthy. 2. SoolYog. One born in SoolYog will be sharp, indolent, bereft of wealth, be tortuous, prohibited, valiant and famous through war. 48.Yuga Yog. One born in YugaYog will be heretic, be devoid of wealth, be discarded by others and be devoid of sons, mother and virtues. 49. Gola Yog. One born in Gola Yog will be strong, be devoid of wealth, learning and intelligence, be dirty, sorrowful and miserable. 50.Ancestors say, that the results, due to said (Nabhash)Yogas, will be felt throughout in all the Dasha periods. Ch. 36. Many OtherYogas 1-2. Benefic and Malefic Yogas. If there be a benefic in Lagn, Subh Yog is produced, while a malefic in Lagn causesAsubhYog. Benefics in both Vyaya and Dhan Bhava cause Subh Yog. Malefics in both Vyaya and Dhan Bhava causeAsubhYog. One born in Subh Yog will be eloquent, charming and virtuous, while his counterpart will be sensuous, will do sinful acts and will enjoy (swallow) others’ wealth. 3-4. Gaj KesariYog. Should Guru be in a Kendr from Lagn, or from Candr and be yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from benefic, avoiding at the same time debilitation, combustion and inimical R??i, Gaj KesariYog is caused. One born in Gaj KesariYog will be splendourous, wealthy, intelligent, endowed with many laudable virtues and will please the king. 5-6. AmalYog. If there be exclusively a benefic in the 10th from Lagn, or Candr,Amal Yog exists.AmalYog will confer fame, lasting till Candr and stars exist and will make the native honoured by the king, enjoy abundant pleasures, charitable, fond of relatives, helpful to others, pious and virtuous. 7-8. ParvatYog. Benefics in Kendras will produce ParvatYog, asYuvati and Randhr Bhava are vacant, or are occupied by only benefics. One born in ParvatYog will be wealthy, eloquent, charitable, learned in Shastras, fond of mirth, famous, splendourous and be the leader of a city. 9-10. KahalYog. Should Bandhu’s Lord and Guru be in mutual Kendras, while Lagn’s Lord is strong, KahalYog occurs.Alternatively Bandhu’s Lord, being in his own, or exaltation R??i, should be yuti with Karm’s Lord. In effect the native will be energetic, adventurous, charming, endowed with a completeArmy, consisting of chariots, elephants, horses and infantry and he will Lord over a few villages. 11-12. ChamarYog. If Lagn’s Lord is exalted in a Kendr and receives a Drishti from Guru, ChamarYog is formed. ThisYog also occurs, if two benefics are in Lagn, or Dharm, or Karm, orYuvati Bhava.The effects of ChamarYog are: the native will be a king, or honoured by the king, long lived, scholarly, eloquent and versed in all arts. 13-14. Shankh Yog. If Lagn’s Lord is strong, while the Lords of Putr and Ari Bhava are in mutual Kendras, then what is known, as ShankhYog, is produced.Alternatively, if Lagn’s Lord along with Karm’s Lord is in a Movable R??i, while Dharm’s Lord is strong, Shankh Yog is obtained. One born with Shankh Yog will be endowed with wealth, spouse and sons. He will be kindly disposed, propitious, intelligent, meritorious and long-lived. 15-16. BhairiYog. IfVyaya, Tanu, Dhan and Yuvati Bhava are occupied, as Dharm’s Lord is strong, the native obtains BhairiYog. Again another kind of BhairiYog is formed, if ?ukr, Guru and Lagn’s Lord are in a Kendr, while Dharm’s Lord is strong. The results of BhairiYog are: the native will be endowed with wealth, wife and sons. He will be a king, be famous, virtuous and endowed with good behaviour, happiness and pleasures. 1. Mridang Yog. If Lagn’s Lord is strong and others occupy Kendras, Konas, own Bhavas, or exaltation R??is, Mridang Yog is formed. The native concerned will be a king, or equal to a king and be happy. 2. Shrinath Yog. IfYuvati’s Lord is in Karm Bhava, while Karm’s Lord is exalted and yuti with Dharm’s Lord, Shrinath Yog takes place. The native with Shrinath Yog will be equal to Lord Devendra (god of gods). 19-20. Sharad Yog. Should Karm’s Lord be in Putr Bhava, while Budh is in a Kendr, as S?rya with strength is in Simh, Sharad Yog is formed.This will again be obtained, if Guru, or Budh is in a Kon to Candr, while Mangal is in Labh Bhava. One born in either kind ofYog will obtain wealth, spouse and sons, be happy, scholarly, dear to the king, pious and virtuous. 21-22. MatsyaYog. Benefics in Dharm and Tanu Bhava, mixed Grahas in Putr Bhava and malefics in Bandhu and Randhr Bhava: this array of Grahas at birth will produce Matsya Yog. In effect the native will be a Jyotishi, be a synonym of kindness, be virtuous, strong, beautiful, famous, learned and pious. 23-24. KurmYog. If Putr, Ari and Yuvati Bhava are occupied by benefic Grahas identical with own Bhava, or exaltation, or friendly R??i, while malefics are in Sahaj, Labh andTanu Bhava, in own Bhava, or in exaltation, KurmYog is formed. The results of KurmYog are: the native will be a king. be courageous, virtuous, famous, helpful, happy. He will be a leader of men. 25-26. KhadgYog. Should there be an exchange of R??is between the Lords of Dhan and Dharm Bhava, as Lagn’s Lord is in a Kendr, or in a Kon, Khadg Yog is obtained. One with Khadg Yog will be endowed with wealth, fortunes and happiness, be learned in Shastras, be intelligent, mighty, grateful and skilful. 27-28. LakshmiYog. If Dharm’s Lord is in a Kendr identical with his Mooltrikon R??i, or own R??i, or in exaltation, while Lagn’s Lord is endowed with strength, LakshmiYog occurs. The native with LakshmiYog will be charming, virtuous, kingly in status, endowed with many sons and abundant wealth. He will be famous and of high moral merits. 29-30. KusumYog. ?ukr in a Kendr, Candr in a Kon along with a benefic and ?ani in Karm Bhava: these Grahas thus cause KusumYog for one born in a Fixed R??i ascending. Such a native will be a king, or equal to him, be charitable, will enjoy pleasures, be happy, prime among his race men, virtuous and red-lettered. 31-32. KalanidhiYog. If Guru is placed in Dhan, or Putr Bhava and receives a Drishti from Budh and ?ukr, KalanidhiYog is caused. In effect the native will be virtuous, honoured by the kings, bereft of diseases, be happy, wealthy and learned. 33-34. Kalpa DrumYog. Note the following four Grahas: Lagn’s Lord , the dispositor of Lagn’s Lord (a), the dispositor of the Grah “a” (b), the Nav??? dispositor of the Grah “b”. If all these are disposed in Kendras and in Konas from Lagn, or are exalted, Kalpa DrumYog exists. One with Kalpa DrumYog will be endowed with all kinds of wealth, be a king, pious, strong, fond of war and merciful. 35-36. TrimurthiYogas. Counted from Dhan’s Lord, if benefics occupy the 2nd, 12th and 8th, HariYog is formed. If the 4th, 9th and 8th with reference to the R??i, occupied byYuvati’s Lord, are occupied by benefics, Hara Yog is obtainable. Brahma Yog is generated, if, counted from Lagn’s Lord, benefics are in the 4th, 10th and 11th R??is. One born in anyone of the said three Yogas will be happy, learned and endowed with wealth and sons. 37. Lagn AdhiYog. Should benefics be in Yuvati and Randhr Bhava, counted from Lagn and be devoid ofYuti with and/or Drishti from malefics, Lagn AdhiYog is produced, making one a great person, learned in Shastras and happy. 38-39. Effects of Lagn’s Lord’s Division Dignities. Lagn’s Lord in Parijat??? will make one happy, in Vargottama will give immunity to diseases, in Gopur??? will make one rich with wealth and grains, in Simhasan??? will make one a king, in Paravat??? will make one a scholar, in Devalok??? will make one opulent and endowed with conveyances and in Iravat??? will make one famous and honoured by kings. (Vargottama indicates a Grah, occupying the same R??i and the same Nav???) Ch. 37. Candr’sYogas 1. If Candr with reference to S?rya is in a Kendr, one’s wealth, intelligence and skill will be little, if in a Panaphara, will be meddling, if in a Apoklima, will be excellent. 2-4. In the case of a day birth, if Candr, placed in its own Nav???, or in a friendly Nav???, receives a Drishti from Guru, one will be endowed with wealth and happiness. One born at night time will enjoy similar effects, if Candr is in its own Nav???, or in a friendly Nav???, receiving a Drishti from ?ukr. In a contrary situation, the Drishti from Guru, or from ?ukr on Candr will make one go with little wealth, or even without that. 5.AdhiYog from Candr. If benefics occupy the 8th, 6th and 7th, counted from Candr, AdhiYog obtains. According to the strength of the participating Grahas, the native concerned will be either a king, or a minister, or an Army chief. 6. Dhan Yog. Should all the (three) benefics be Upachaya, counted from Candr, one will be very affluent. With two benefics, placed in the 3rd, the 6th, the 10th and the 11th, one will have medium effects in regard to wealth. If a single benefic is there, the wealth will be negligible. 7-10. Sunaph, Anaph and Duradhar. If there is a Grah other than S?rya, in the 2nd from Candr, Sunaph Yog is formed, if in the 12th from Candr, AnaphYog is formed and, if in the 2nd and 12th from Candr, DuradharYog is caused. One with Sunaph Yog will be a king, or equal to a king, endowed with intelligence, wealth, fame and self-earned wealth. One born in Anaph Yog will be a king, be free from diseases, virtuous, famous, charming and happy. One born in DuradharYog will enjoy pleasures, will be charitable and endowed with wealth, conveyances and excellent serving force. 11-13. Kema DrumYog. Excluding S?rya, should there be no Grah with Candr, or in the 2nd and/or 12th from Candr, or in a Kendr from Lagn, Kema DrumYog is formed. One born in Kema DrumYog will be very much reproached, will be bereft of intelligence, learning, reduced to penury and perils. Ch. 38. S?rya’sYogas 1. Vesi, Vosi andAbhayachariYogas. Barring Candr, if a Grah among Mangal etc. be in the 2nd from S?rya, VesiYog is formed, if in the 12th from S?rya, VosiYog is formed and if in both the 2nd and the 12th from S?rya, UbhayachariYog is caused. 2-3. Effects ofVesi,Vosi and UbhayachariYogas. One born in VesiYog will be even sighted, truthful, long-bodied, indolent, happy and endowed with negligible wealth. One born with VosiYog will be skilful, charitable and endowed with fame, learning and strength. The Ubhayachari native will be a king, or equal to a king and be happy. 4. Benefics, causing Vesi, Vosi, or UbhayachariYogas, will give the above-mentioned effects, while malefics will produce contrary effects. Ch. 39. RajYog 1-2. O excellent of the Brahmins, I now narrate below the RajYogas, making one entitled to royal honour. These were told to Parvati by Lord Shiva once upon a time, the gist of which is, as follows. 3-5. RajYogas are to be known from the Karak??? Lagn and the natal Lagn. On the one hand the pair ofAtma Karak and Putr Karak should be considered and on the other hand the natal Lagn’s Lord and Putr’s Lord should be taken into consideration. The effects, due to such association, will be full, or a half, or a quarter, according to their strengths. 6-7. Maha RajYog. Should Lagn’s Lord and Putr’s Lord exchange their R??is, or, if Atma Karak and Putr Karak (Char) are in Lagn, or in Putr Bhava, or in the exaltation R??i, or in own R??i, or in own Nav???, receiving a Drishti from a benefic, Maha Raj Yog is produced. The native so born will be famous and happy. 8. If Lagn’s Lord and Atma Karak are in Tanu, Putr, orYuvati Bhava, yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from a benefic, a RajYog is formed. 9-10. Should there be benefics in the 2nd, the 4th and the 5th, counted either from Lagn’s Lord, or fromAtma Karak R??i, one will become a king. Similarly malefics in the 3rd and 6th from Lagn’s Lord, or fromAtma Karak R??i will make one a king. 1. One will be related to royal circles, if ?ukr is the Karak???, or in the 5th there from, or in Lagn, or in Arudh Lagn, receiving a Drishti from, or yuti with Guru, or Candr. 2. Even, if a single Grah gives a Drishti to the natal Lagn, or Hora Lagn, or Ghatik Lagn, the native will become a king. 13-14. If the ShadVargas of Lagn are occupied, or receive a Drishti from one and the same Grah, a RajYog is doubtlessly formed.Accordingly, if the Drishti is full, half, or one fourth, results will be in order full, medium and negligible. 1. If the 3 Lagnas (natal, Hora and Ghatik) are occupied by Grahas in exaltation, or in own R??i, or, if the natal Lagn, the Dreshkan Lagn and the Nav??? Lagn have exalted Grahas, RajYog is formed. 2. If Candr and a benefic are in the Arudh Lang, as Guru is in the 2nd from the natal Lagn and both these places are receiving Drishtis from Grahas in exaltation, or Grahas in own R??i, there will be a RajYog. 3. If Lagn, Dhan and Bandhu Bhava are occupied by benefics, while a malefic is in Sahaj Bhava, one will become a king, or equal to a king. 4. The native will be wealthy, if one among Candr, Guru, ?ukr and Budh is exalted in Dhan Bhava. 5. IfAri, Randhr and Sahaj Bhava are occupied by debilitated Grahas, as Lagn’s Lord is exalted, or is in own Bhava and gives a Drishti to Lagn, there is a RajYog. 20.Again a RajYog is formed, ifAri’s, Randhr’s and Vyaya’s Lords are in fall, or in inimical R??is, or in combustion, as Lagn’s Lord, placed in his own R??i, or in its exaltation R??i, gives a Drishti to Lagn. 1. If Karm’s Lord, placed in his own Bhava, or in its exaltation R??i, gives a Drishti to Lagn, a RajYog is formed. Similar is the case, if benefics are in Kendras. 2. If the Atma Karak Grah is in a benefic’s R??i/Nav???, the native will be wealthy. If there are benefics in Kendras from Karak??? Lagn, he will become a king. 3. If the Arudh Lagn and Dar Pad are in mutual Kendras, or in mutual Sahaj/Labh Bhavas, or in mutual Konas, the native will doubtlessly become a king. 4. If two, or all of Bhava, Hora, Ghatik Lagnas are receiving a Drishti from exalted Grahas, a RajYog is formed. 5. If Bhava, Hora and Ghatik Lagnas, their Dreshkanas and Nav???as, or the said Lagnas and their Nav???as, or the said Lagnas and their Dreshkanas receive a Drishti from a Grah, a RajYog is formed. 26-27. IfArudh Pad is occupied by an exalted Grah, particularly Candr in exaltation, or by Guru and/or ?ukr (with, or without exaltation), while there is no Argala by a malefic, the native will become a king. If theArudh Pad is a benefic R??i, containing Candr, while Guru is in Dhan Bhava, the same effect will prevail. 28. Even, if one among Ari’s, Randhr’s and Vyaya’s Lords, being in debilitation, gives a Drishti to Lagn, there will be a RajYog. 29-31. The native will become a king, if a Grah, ruling Bandhu, Karm, Dhan, or Labh, gives a Drishti to Lagn, while ?ukr gives a Drishti to the 11th fromArudh Lagn, as Arudh Lagn is occupied by a benefic. The same effect will be obtained, if a debilitated Grah gives a Drishti to Lagn and is placed in Ari, or Randhr Bhava. Again similar result will prevail, if a debilitated Grah, placed in Sahaj, or Labh Bhava, gives a Drishti to Lagn. 32. I now tell you of the RajYogas, based on the Grahas with different dignities and on the Drishtis and Yutis of the Grahas. 33-34. Dharm’s Lord is akin to a minister and more especially Putr’s Lord. If these two Grahas mutually give a Drishti, the native will obtain a kingdom. Even, if these two are yuti in any Bhava, or, if they happen to be placed in mutually 7th places, one born of royal scion will become a king. 1. The native will attain a kingdom, if Bandhu’s Lord is in Karm Bhava and Karm’s Lord is in Bandhu Bhava and, if these Grahas give a Drishti to Putr’s and Dharm’s Lords. 2. If the Lords of Putr, Karm, Bandhu and Lagn are yuti in Dharm Bhava, one will become a ruler with fame, spreading over the four directions. 3. Should the Lord of Bandhu, or of Karm Bhava join either the Putr’s Lord, or Dharm’s Lord, the native will obtain a kingdom. 4. If Putr’s Lord is in Lagn, Bandhu, or Karm Bhava, yuti with Dharm’s Lord, or Lagn Lord, the native will become a king. 5. Should Guru be in his own R??i identical with Dharm Bhava and yuti with either ?ukr, or Putr’s Lord, the native will obtain royal status. 6. Two and a half Ghatis from mid-day, or from mid-night is auspicious time.A birth during such an auspicious time will cause one to be a king, or equal to him. 1. Should Candr and ?ukr be mutually in Sahaj and Labh Bhava and receiving Drishtis from each other, while they are placed elsewhere, a RajYog is obtained. 2. Should Candr, endowed with strength, be Vargott??? and receives a Drishti from four, or more Grahas, the native will become a king. 3. One will become a king, if Lagn in Uttam??? receives a Drishti from four, or more Grahas, out of which Candr should not be one. 4. If one, or two, or three Grahas are in exaltation, one of a royal scion will become a king, while another will be equal to a king, or be wealthy. 5. If four, or five Grahas occupy their exaltation R??is, or Mooltrikon R??is, even a person of base birth will become king. 6. If six Grahas are exalted, the native will become emperor and will enjoy various kinds of royal paraphernalia. 7. Even, if one among Guru, ?ukr and Budh is in exaltation, while a benefic is in a Kendr, the native will become a king, or be equal to him. 8. If all benefics are relegated to Kendras, while malefics are in Sahaj, Ari and Labh Bhava, the native, though may be of mean descent, will ascend the throne. Ch. 40. Yogas For RoyalAssociation 1. If Karm’s Lord is yuti with, or receives a Drishti from the dispositor ofAmatya Karak, or even, if Karm’s Lord is yuti with, or receives a Drishti fromAmatya Karak himself, the native will be a chief in the king’s court. 2. If Karm and Labh Bhava are devoid of malefic occupation and devoid of Drishti from a malefic, while Labh Bhava receives a Drishti from its own Lord, the native will be a chief in the king’s court. 3. Should Amatya Karak and the dispositor ofAtma Karak be together, the native will be endowed with great intelligence and will be a king’s minister. (‘Karakendr’ is interpreted here, as the dispositor ofAtma Karak. Similarly ‘Amatyesa’ means the dispositor of Amatya Karak) 4. IfAtma Karak is strong and is with a benefic, orAmatya Karak is in its own Bhava, or in exaltation, one will surely become a king’s minister. 1. There is no doubt in one’s becoming a king’s minister and famous, ifAtma Karak is in Tanu, or Putr, or Dharm Bhava. 2. IfAtma Karak, orAmatya Karak is placed in a Kendr, or in a Kon, the native will beget royal mercy, royal patronage and happiness thereof. 3. Should malefics be in the 3rd and the 6th fromAtma Karak, or fromArudh Lagn, or in Sahaj and Ari Bhava, one will becomeArmy chief. 4. IfAtma Karak is in a Kendr, or in a Kon, or in exaltation, or in its own Bhava and gives a Drishti to Dharm’s Lord, the native will be a king’s minister. 5. If the Lord of the R??i, where Candr is placed becomesAtma Karak and, if this Lord is placed in Tanu Bhava along with a benefic, the native will become a king’s minister at his advanced age. 6. Should theAtma Karak be in Putr, Yuvati, Karm, or Dharm Bhava and happen to be with a benefic, one will earn wealth through royal patronage. 7. If the Arudh of Dharm Bhava happens to be itself the Janm Lagn, or, ifAtma Karak is placed in Dharm Bhava, the native will be associated with royal circles. 8. One will gain through royal association, if Labh Bhava is occupied by its own Lord and is devoid of a Drishti from a malefic. The Atma Karak should at the same time be yuti with a benefic. 13.An exchange of R??is between Karm’s Lord and Lagn’s Lord will make the native associated with the king in a great manner. 1. If ?ukr and Candr are in the 4th from Karak??? Lagn, the native will be endowed with royal insignia. 2. Should Lagn’s Lord, or the Atma Karak be yuti with Putr’s Lord and be in a Kendr, or in a Kon, the native will be a king, or minister. Ch. 41. Combinations forWealth 1. I now tell you of special combinations, giving wealth. One born to theseYogas will surely become wealthy. 2.Yogas for GreatAffluence (up to Sloka 8). Should a R??i of ?ukr be Putr Bhava and be occupied by ?ukr himself, while Mangal is in Labh Bhava, the native will obtain great riches. 1. Should a R??i of Budh be Putr Bhava and be occupied by Budh himself, as Labh Bhava is occupied by Candr, Mangal and Guru, the native will be very affluent. 2. Should Simh be Putr Bhava and be occupied by S?rya himself, as ?ani, Candr and Guru are in Labh Bhava, the native will be very affluent. 3. Should S?rya and Candr be in Labh Bhava, as ?ani is in Putr Bhava identical with his own Bhava, the native will be very affluent. 4. Should Guru be in Putr Bhava identical with his own R??i, as Budh is in Labh Bhava, the native will be very affluent. 5. If a R??i of Mangal happens to be Putr Bhava with Mangal therein, while ?ukr is in Labh Bhava, the native will become very affluent. 6. If Kark happens to be Putr Bhava, containing Candr therein, while ?ani is in Labh Bhava, the native will become very affluent. 9.Yogas forWealth (up to Sloka 15). Should S?rya be in Simh identical with Lagn and be yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from Mangal and Guru, one will be wealthy. 10. Should Candr be in Kark identical with Lagn and be yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from Budh and Guru, one will be wealthy. 11. Should Mangal be in Lagn identical with his own R??i and be yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from Budh, ?ukr and ?ani, the native will be rich. 12. Should Budh’s R??i be Lagn with Budh therein and should Budh be yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from ?ani and Guru, the native will be rich. 13. Should Guru be in Lagn identical with his own R??i and be yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from Budh and Mangal, the native will be rich. 14. If ?ukr happens to be in Lagn identical with his own R??i and be yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from ?ani and Budh, one will be wealthy. 15. If ?ani is in his own R??i identical with Lagn and receiving a Drishti from, or being yuti with Mangal and Guru, the native will be wealthy. 1. Other Qualified Grahas. Dharm’s Lord and Putr’s Lord are capable of bestowing wealth. Similarly Grahas, yuti with Dharm’s Lord and/or Putr’s Lord are capable of bestowing wealth.There is no doubt, that these Grahas will give wealth during their Dasha periods. 17. The Yogas, mentioned above (up to Sloka 16) should be delineated after knowing favourable, or unfavourable dispositions of the participant Grahas and their strength and weakness. 18-19. Effects of the Divisional Dignities of the Lords of Kendras. If the Lord of a Kendr is in Parijat???, the native will be liberal, if in Uttam???, will be highly liberal, if in Gopur???, will be endowed with prowess, if in Simhasan???, will be honourable, if in Paravat???, will be valorous, if in Devalok???, will be head of an assembly, if in Brahmalok???, will be a sage and, if in Iravat???, will be delighted and be celebrated in all quarters. 20-22. Effects of the Divisional Dignities of Putr’s Lord. If Putr’s Lord is in Parijat???, the native will take to the branch of learning, befitting his race, if in Uttam???, will have excellent learning, if in Gopur???, will receive world-wide honours, if in Simhasan???, will become a minister, if in also Paravat???, will be endowed with Vedic Knowledge, if in Devalok???, will be a KarmYogi (performer of actions, worldly and religious rites), if in Brahmalok???, will be devoted to the Lord and, if in Iravat???, will be pious. 23-27. Effects of the Divisional Dignities of Dharm’s Lord. If Dharm’s Lord is in Parijat???, the native will visit holy places, if in Uttam???, has been visiting holy places in the past births and he will do the same within this life-time, if in Gopur???, will perform sacrificial rites, if in Simhasan???, will be mighty and truthful, conquerer of his senses and will concentrate only on the Brahman, giving up all religions, if in Paravat???, will be the greatest of ascetics, if in Devalok???, will be an ascetic, holding a cudgel (Lagudi), or he will be a religious mendicant, that has renounced all mundane attachments and carrying three long staves, tied together, in his right hand (Tridandin) and, if in Brahmalok???, will performAswamedh Yagya (Horse Sacrifice) and will attain the state of Lord Indra, if in Iravat???, will be a synonym of Dharma, or virtues just, as Lord Ram andYudhishtira. 28. Lords of Kendras and Konas Related. The Kendras are known, asVishnu Sthanas (Bhavas of Lord Vishnu), while the Konas are called Lakshmi Sthanas. If the Lord of a Kendr establishes a relationship with the Lord of a Kon, a RajYog is obtained. (A sixth kind of relationship can also be extended in this context to Nav??? positions, though there is no specific classic sanction for this. For example in the case of a Makar native Mangal in the Nav??? of ?ukr and ?ukr in the Nav??? of Mangal will confer a superior RajYog. This form of relationship will be equally superior, like the first 3 relationships, mentioned in the earlier paragraph). 29-34 Effects of the Divisional Dignities of Related Lords of Kendras and Lords of Konas. If the Lord of a Kendr and the Lord of a Kon, having a relationship, as indicated in Sloka 28, happen to be in Parijat???, the native will be king and will protect men, if in Uttam???, will be an excellent king, endowed with elephants, horses, chariots etc., if in Gopur???, will be a tiger of kings, honoured by other kings and, if in Simhasan???, will be an emperor, ruling over the entire earth. With the said RajYog relationship of the said Grahas in Simhasan??? were born Harish Candr, Manu, Bali, Agni Deva and many emperors. In the presentYuga so born isYudhishtira (Dharm Raj of Mahabharat). Salivahana’s birth and that of others will also come with thisYog. With such Lords, placed in Paravat???, Manu etc. were born. The Incarnations of Lord Vishnu took place, when such Lords were placed in Devalok???. With such Lords, placed in Brahmalok???, Lord Brahma was born and, placed in Iravat???, the Swayambhu Manu was born. (Manu is the first of the 14 Manus, identified, as the second creator, who produced the Prajapatis. To Manu the code of laws, Manu Smriti is ascribed). Ch. 42. Combinations for Penury 1. O Lord, you have stated manyYogas, related to acquisition of wealth. Please tell me such Yogas, causing utter poverty. 2. The native will be penniless, if Lagn’s Lord is in Vyaya Bhava, while Vyaya’s Lord is in Lagn along with the Lord of a Marak, or receives a Drishti from such a Grah. 3. The native will be penniless, if Lagn’s Lord is in Ari Bhava, while Ari’s Lord is in Lagn, yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from a Marak Lord. 4. Should Lagn, or Candr be with Ketu, while Lagn’s Lord is in Randhr Bhava, the person concerned will be penniless. 5. If Lagn’s Lord along with a malefic is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, while Dhan’s Lord is in an enemy’s R??i, or in debilitation, even a native of royal scion will become penniless. 6. If Lagn’s Lord is yuti with the Lord ofAri, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, or with ?ani and, if Lagn’s Lord is devoid of a Drishti from a benefic, the native will be penniless. 7. Should Putr’s and Dharm’s Lords be, respectively, found in Ari and Vyaya Bhava and receive a Drishti from Marak Grahas, the native will be penniless. 1. If malefics, excepting the Lords of Karm and Dharm Bhava, happen to be in Lagn, associated with, or receiving a Drishti from Marak Grahas, one will become penniless. 9. Note the Grahas, that are ruling the R??is, occupied by the Lords ofAri, Randhr and Vyaya Bhava. If the said dispositors are in such evil Bhavas in turn and are associated with, or receive a Drishti from malefics, the native will be miserable and indigent. 10. The Lord of the Nav???, occupied by Candr, joining a Marak Grah, or occupying a Marak Bhava, will make one penniless. 11. Should the Lord of the natal Lagn and that of the Nav??? Lagn be yuti with, or receive a Drishti from Marak Grahas, one will be penniless. 12. If inauspicious Bhavas are occupied by benefics, while auspicious Bhavas are occupied by malefics, the native will be indigent and will be distressed even in the matter of food. 13.A Grah, associated with one of the Lords ofAri, Randhr and Vyaya Bhava, being bereft of a Drishti from the Lord of a Kon, will in its Dasha periods cause harm to the native’s financial aspects. 1. If the 8th/12th fromAtma Karak, or Randhr/Vyaya Bhava receive a Drishti from the Atma Karak’s Nav??? Lord and the Lord of Janma Lagn, the native will be bereft of wealth. 2. The native will be a spendthrift, if the 12th fromAtma Karak receives a Drishti from the dispositor ofAtma Karak, or, ifVyaya Bhava receives a Drishti from the Lord of Lagn. 16-18. Now I tell you someYogas for poverty along with conditions of their nullifications. Should Mangal and ?ani be together in Dhan Bhava, the native’s wealth will be destroyed. Should Budh give a Drishti to Mangal and ?ani in Dhan Bhava, there will be great wealth. There is no doubt in it. S?rya in Dhan Bhava, receiving a Drishti from ?ani, will cause penury, while, if S?rya is in Dhan Bhava and does not receive a Drishti from ?ani, riches and fame will be obtained. The same effects (poverty) will be declared, if ?ani is in Dhan Bhava, receiving a Drishti from S?rya. Ch. 43. Longevity 1. O Maharishi Parashar, you have dealt with combinations for wealth and poverty. Kindly detail methods of ascertaining the life-span of human beings. 2-3. O Brahmin, for the benefit of mankind I narrate methods of ascertaining longevity. Knowing that longevity is difficult even for gods. Many exponents have laid down various methods of longevity calculations. Following is the summary of such schools of thought. 4-8. Pindayu. The Grahas contribute to longevity, according to their being in exaltation, or debilitation and also based on their strengths and weaknesses and positions in Ashvini etc. and in the various R??is. First of all Pindayu is based on the positions of the Grahas. O Brahmin, listen carefully to what I say: 19, 25, 15, 12, 15, 21 and 20 are the number of years, contributed by the Grahas, from S?rya etc., when in exaltation. These are half of the above in debilitation. And, if the Grahas are in between exaltation and debilitation, the rule of three process should be used. Deduct the actual position of the Grah from its deep exaltation point. If the product is less than 6 R??is, deduct it again from 12 R??is. The product concerned should be multiplied by the number of years allotted to the Grah and divided by 12 to get the Grah’s actual contribution. 9. Rectifications. Excepting ?ukr and ?ani, the contributions, made by others, should be halved, if they are eclipsed by S?rya. One third should be reduced, if the Grah is in its inimical R??i. This does not apply to the one in retrogression (see Vakra Charam). 10-11. Deductions for Grahas in theVisible Half of the Zodiac. Full, half, one third, one fourth, one fifth and one sixth are the deductions of contributions, made by malefics, placed in the visible half of the zodiac. Benefics in such cases lose only half of what malefics lose. Should there be more than one Grah in a Bhava, the deduction, due to the strongest, will only prevail and not deductions, due to other Grahas in that particular Bhava.Waning Candr is a benefic for this purpose. 12-13. Malefics in Lagn. In case Tanu Bhava is occupied by malefics, adopt the following procedure. Convert Lagn’s Sphuta into minutes of arc and multiply it by the years etc., contributed by the occupant, and divide by 21600. The years etc. so arrived be deducted from the respective contribution, which will be the net span, donated by the Grah. If there is benefic’s Drishti on Lagn, containing malefics, then the loss is only half. 14-15. Lagn’s Contribution. The number of years, contributed by Lagn, will correspond to the number of R??is it gained (from Mesh), while the degrees Lagn has gained in the particular R??i will also correspondingly donate (30° = l year). If the Lagn’s Lord in the Nav??? is stronger than Lagn’s Lord, then the contribution should be computed only based on the number of Nav???as gained (from Mesh), otherwise the computation will be for the R??i Lagn. 16-17. Nisargayu. O Brahmin, now I tell you about Nisargayu. 1, 2, 9, 20, 18, 20 and 50 are the years, allotted to Candr, Mangal, Budh, ?ukr, Guru, S?rya and ?ani from the period of birth. 18-19. A??ayu. Now I will tell you aboutA??ayu contributions by Lagn and Grahas. The years correspond to the number of Nav???as, counted from Mesh. Multiply the longitude in question by 108. If the product exceeds 12, expunge multiples of 12 and consider the final product in R??is, degrees etc., as years, months etc. 20-22. The same reductions, as per Pindayu, apply to A??ayu as well; i.e. half for a combust Grah, one third for inimical placement and the ones, due for placements in the half of the zodiac, counted from the 12th backwards. Some scholars suggest further corrections forA??ayu, viz. to increase threefold the contribution of a Grah in exaltation, or in own Bhava and double the contribution, if the contributor is in his own Nav???, or in his own Dreshkan. If doubling and trebling is warranted, only trebling be done. In case of reductions also only halving is to be done, if both halving and reducing a third are required. That is how the final life-span of men be understood. 23. Longevity for Other Living Beings. For other living beings as well such computations can be made. The said figure should be multiplied by the figure, corresponding to its full span of life and divided by the figure, corresponding to the full span of life for human beings. 24-29. Full Life Span ofVarious Living Beings. Now I’ll tell you about the full life-span figures for various living beings. Gods and sages enjoy endless life-span (in astronomical proportions, as against ordinary mortals). The full life-span of eagles, owls, parrots, crows and snakes is one thousand years. For falcon, monkey, bear and frog the full span of life is 300 years. Demon’s full life-span is 150 years, while it is 120 for human beings, 32 for horses, 25 for donkeys and camels, 24 for oxen and buffaloes, 20 for peacocks, 16 for goats and rams. 14 for swans, 12 for cuckoo, dog and dove, 8 for hens etc. and 7 for birds etc. 30-31. Choice of Longevity. I have narrated 3 different methods of longevity. Listen to me about the choice among the three systems.According to which of the three, Lagn, S?rya, or Candr is stronger than the other two, A??ayu, Pindayu, or Nisargayu should be, respectively, chosen. 32. Doubtful Cases. If two among Lagn, S?rya and Candr gain equal strength, then longevity should be worked out, as per both systems and the average of both should be considered. If all the three are equally strong, the average of the three should be considered. 33-40. Other Clues to Longevity. O excellent of the Brahmins, I will now give you details of other methods in the matter of longevity, as under. This is based on the positions of Lagn’s Lord, Randhr’s Lord, ?ani, Candr, natal Lagn and Hora Lagn. These six are grouped into three groups thus: the Lords of Lagn and of Randhr Bhava on the one hand, ?ani and Candr on the other hand and the natal Lagn and Hora Lagn on yet the other hand. Out of a group of two, if the two are in Movable R??is, long life is denoted. One in a Fixed R??i and the other in a Dual R??i will also bestow long life. One in a Movable R??i and the other in a Fixed R??i will give medium life. If both are in Dual R??is, then again medium life will be obtained. Short life is denoted, if one is in a Movable R??i, as the other is in a Dual R??i, or, if both are in Fixed R??is. The type of life, denoted by three, or two groups be only considered. If the three groups denote different scales, then the one, indicated by the pair of natal Lagn and Hora Lagn should be only considered. In case of three different indications, if Candr is in Lagn, orYuvati Bhava, then the one, indicated by the ?ani-Candr pair will only come to pass. 41-44. Further Clarifications. If long life is denoted by all the said three groups, the span is 120 years, if by two groups, it is 108 years and, if only by one group it is 91 years. If medium life is arrived at by three groups, it is 80 years, if indicated by 2 groups, it is 72 years and, if by one group, it is 64 years. If short life is denoted by the said three groups, it is only 32 years, if indicated by two groups, the life-span is 36 years and, if by one group, the life-span is 40 years. These are rectified, as under. 45-46. Rectifications. If the contributor is in the beginning of a R??i, his donation will be full and it will be nil, if he is at the end of a R??i. For intermediary placements rule of three process will apply. Add the longitudes of the contributors and the sum so arrived at must be divided by the number of contributors. The latest product should be multiplied by the number of basic years and divided by 30. This will yield the net longevity. 1. Special Rule for ?ani. Should ?ani be a contributor, the class of longevity declines. Some advocate contrarily an increase of class in this context. If ?ani is in its own R??i, or in exaltation, change in class will not occur. Even, if he receives a Drishti from, or is yuti with only a malefic, no change occurs. 2. Special Rule for Guru. If Guru is in Lagn, or in Yuvati Bhava and receives a Drishti from, or is yuti with only benefics, the class of longevity will increase. 49-50. Increase and Fall in Class of Longevity. From very short life to short life, from short life to medium life, from medium life to long life and from long life to extremely long life are the increases in the classification of longevity, when Guru warrants an increase. The reverse is true, if ?ani warrants a fall in the span of life. 1. (Maitreya says)You have narrated various kinds of longevity computations. Please favour me by denoting subtle classes thereof and poor and long life-spans. 52. (Maharishi Parashar replies)These are seven-fold, viz. Bal Risht, Yog Risht, short, medium, long, super-natural (Divya) and immortality (Amritayu). 53-54. The life-span in Bal Risht is 8 years, in Yog Risht 20 years, in short, medium and long lives, respectively, 32, 64 and 120 years. Super-natural life-span is 1000 years. Above this super-natural life-span of 1000 years it isAmritayu, which can be acquired only by those, who deserve it. 1. Limitless Longevity. Should Kark be Lagn with Guru and Candr therein, while ?ukr and Budh are in Kendras and others are in Sahaj, Ari and Labh Bhava, the native will obtain limitless longevity. 2. Super-Natural Longevity. One having benefics in Kendras and/or Konas, while malefics are in Sahaj, Ari and Labh Bhava will obtain super-natural life-span. Randhr Bhava in this case should be one of the R??is, owned by a benefic. 3. Living until the End of the Yuga. One born in Kark Lagn will live till the end of the Yuga, if Guru is in a Kendr and happens to be in Gopur???, while ?ukr is in a Kon and happens to be in Paravat???. 4. Living the Life-Span of a Sage. Guru in Simhasan???, being in Lagn, ?ani in Devalok??? and Mangal in Paravat???. If these are so, one will enjoy the life-span, as due to a sage. 5. Good Yogas increase the life-span and bad Yogas decrease the same. Hence I tell you such Yogas, as to know of full, medium and short span combinations. 6. If a Kendr contains a benefic, while Lagn’s Lord is yuti with, or receives a Drishti from a benefic, or Guru in particular, the native will live a full span of life. 7. Should Lagn’s Lord be in a Kendr yuti with, or receiving a Drishti from Guru and ?ukr, full life-span will result. 8. If at birth three Grahas are exalted, out of which the Lords of Lagn and Randhr Bhava are inclusive, as Randhr Bhava is devoid of a malefic in it, full life-span will result. 9. Long life is denoted, if three Grahas are in Randhr Bhava, in exaltation, own, or friendly divisions, while Lagn’s Lord is strong. 1. If ?ani, or Lagn’s Lord is yuti with any exalted Grah, long life will result. 2. Long life will be enjoyed, if malefics are in Sahaj, Ari and Labh Bhava, while benefics are in Kendras. 3. IfAri, Yuvati and Randhr Bhava are occupied by benefics, while malefics are in Sahaj and Labh Bhava, full life-span will follow the birth. 4. If Randhr’s Lord is friendly to S?rya, while malefics are in Ari and Vyaya Bhava, as Lagn’s Lord is in a Kendr, the native will live the full span of life. 5. O excellent of the Brahmins, if a malefic is in Randhr Bhava, while Karm’s Lord is exalted, one will be long-lived. 6. Long life will follow, if Lagn is a Dual R??i, while Lagn’s Lord is in a Kendr, or in exaltation, or in a Kon. 7. Should Lagn be a Dual R??i, while two malefics are in a Kendr with reference to a strong Lagn’s Lord, long life is indicated. 71-73. If the stronger among Lagn’s Lord and Randhr’s Lord is placed in a Kendr, long life is indicated and, if in a Panaphara, medium life is indicated, if in Apoklima, short life will come to pass.According to Lagn’s Lord being friendly, neutral, or inimical to S?rya, long, medium, or short life will result. 1. Should Mangal and Sahaj’s Lord, or Randhr’s Lord and ?ani be combust, or be yuti with malefics, or receive a Drishti from malefics, there will be short life. 2. If Lagn’s Lord is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, yuti with malefics and devoid of Yuti with and/or Drishti from a benefic, short life will come to pass. 3. If malefics are in Kendras, devoid ofYuti with, or a Drishti from benefics, while Lagn’s Lord is not strong, only short life will result. 4. O excellent of Brahmins, ifVyaya and Dhan Bhava are occupied by malefics and devoid of a Drishti from a benefic, or ofYuti with a benefic, the native will be short-lived. 5. If the Lords of Lagn and Randhr Bhava are bereft of dignities and strength, short life will come to pass. If the Lords of Lagn and Randhr Bhava are helped by others, while being so, medium life-span will come to pass. Ch. 44. Marak Grahas 1. O Maharishi Parashar, you have mentioned a lot about longevity. Be kind enough to throw light on Marakas, or killers. 2-5. O Brahmin, Sahaj and Randhr Bhava are the two Bhavas of longevity. The Bhavas, related to death, are the 12th from each of these, i.e. Dhan and Yuvati Bhava are Marak Bhavas. 3. Out of the two, Dhan Bhava is a powerful Marak Bhava.The Lords of Dhan and Yuvati Bhava, malefics in Dhan and Yuvati Bhava and malefics, yuti with Dhan’s Lord and yuti with Yuvati’s Lord are all known, as Marakas. The major and sub-periods of these Grahas will bring death on the native, depending on whether he is a long life, medium life, or short life person. 6-7. The Dasha of a benefic Grah, related to Vyaya’s Lord may also inflict death. End may descend on the native in Randhr’s Lord’s Dasha. The Dasha of a Grah, which is an exclusive malefic, may also cause death. 9. Should ?ani be ill-disposed and be related to a Marak Grah, he will be the first to kill in preference to other Grahas. 10-14. O Brahmin, I tell you further about Marakas. Narrated earlier are three kinds of life-spans, viz. short, medium and long. Short life is before 32 years, later on up to 64 it is medium life and from 64 to 100 it is long life. Beyond 100 the longevity is called supreme. O excellent of the Brahmins, it is impossible to decide upon longevity till the native is 20 years old. Till such year the child should be protected by sacred recitations, religious offerings (of Gh? etc.) to consecrated fire, as prescribed in the Vedas etc. and through medical treatments, for premature death may descend on the child due to sins of father and mother, or of its own (in the previous birth). 15-21. I further mention about the Marak Grahas. One born with short life combinations may face death in the Dasha, denoted by Vipat star (3rd from the birth star), one of medium life may die in the Dasha, denoted by Pratyak star (5th from the birth star). In the Dasha, denoted by Vadh star (7th from the birth star), one with long life may obtain his end. The Dasha of the Lord of the 22nd Dreshkan, or 23rd, or 3rd, or 5th, or 7th asterisms may also cause death. The Lords of the 2nd and the 12th, counted from Kark, may bring death.This is true, when Candr is a malefic. If he happens to be a benefic, there will be diseases (not death). Death may come to pass in the Dasha ofAri’s Lord and in the subperiods ofAri’s, Randhr’s and/orVyaya’s Lords. Should there be many Marakas and, if these Marakas are strong, there will be diseases, miseries etc. in major and sub-periods. Thus these are Marakas and are primarily related to bring death upon the native. According to their dispositions there may be death, or difficulties. 22-24. Rahu and Ketu, as Marakas. If Rahu, or Ketu are placed in Tanu, Yuvati, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, or happen to be in the 7th from a Marak Lord, or are placed with such a Grah, they acquire powers of killing in their major, or sub-periods. For one born in Makar, or in Vrischik, Rahu will be a Marak. Should Rahu be in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, he will give difficulties in his Dasha periods. He will not, however, do so, if Rahu receives a Drishti from, or is yuti with a benefic. 25-31. Sahaj Bhava and Death. O excellent of Brahmins, if S?rya, being with strength, is in Sahaj Bhava, one will obtain his death, due to a king (legal punishments). Candr in Sahaj Bhava will cause death, due to tuberculosis, while wounds, weapons, fire and thirst will cause death through Mangal in Sahaj Bhava. If Sahaj Bhava receives a Drishti from, or is occupied by ?ani and Rahu, death will be through poison, water, or fire, or fall from heights, or confinement. Death will surely come to descend through insects, or leprosy, if Candr and Gulik occupy, or give a Drishti to Sahaj Bhava. Budh, giving a Drishti to, or occupying Sahaj Bhava, will bring death, followed by fever. Guru in Sahaj Bhava, or giving a Drishti to Sahaj Bhava, will cause death by swelling, or tumours. Urinary diseases will cause death, if ?ukr is in, or gives a Drishti to Sahaj Bhava. Many Grahas, giving a Drishti to, or occupying Sahaj Bhava, will bring death through many diseases. 1. If Sahaj Bhava is occupied by a benefic, death will be in an auspicious place (like a shrine) and, if Sahaj Bhava is occupied by a malefic, death will be in sinful places. Mixed occupation of Sahaj Bhava will yield mixed results with regard to the place of death. 2. Consciousness will prevail at the time of death, if Guru, or ?ukr are placed in Sahaj Bhava.With other Grahas in Sahaj Bhava there will be unconsciousness before death. 34.According to Sahaj Bhava being a Movable, a Fixed, or a Dual R??i, death will be, respectively, in a foreign place (other than native birth place), in one’s own house, or on the way. 35-36. Occupants of Randhr Bhava. Note the occupant of Randhr Bhava. If it is S?rya, death will be through fire, if Candr is in Randhr Bhava, through water, if Mangal, through weapons, if Budh, through fever, if Guru, through diseases, if ?ukr, through hunger and, if ?ani, through thirst. 37. If Randhr Bhava is occupied by, or receives a Drishti from a benefic, while Dharm’s Lord is yuti with a benefic, the native will die in a shrine. If Randhr Bhava is occupied by, or receives a Drishti from a malefic, while Dharm’s Lord is yuti with a malefic, death will be in a place, other than a shrine. 38-39. Fate of the Human Physical System. Should there be a benefic’s Dreshkan in Randhr Bhava (22nd Dreshkan), the body will be burnt in fire (as prescribed in Shastras). If a malefic’s Dreshkan happens to be in Randhr Bhava, the body will be thrown away in water. If the Dreshkan in Randhr Bhava is owned by a mixed Grah, the dead body will only dry up. If the Dreshkan in Randhr Bhava is a serpent Dreshkan, the body will be eaten away by animals, crows etc. 40. Serpent Dreshkanas. The 2nd and 3rd Dreshkan in Kark, the initial one in Vrischik and the last one in Meen are designated, as serpent Dreshkanas. 41-42. Pre-natalAbode. O excellent of Brahmins, the stronger of the two luminaries, S?rya and Candr, occupying a Dreshkan of Guru, denotes the descent from the world of gods. If the stronger of the luminaries occupies the Dreshkan of ?ukr, or Candr, the descent is from the world of the Manes, if the stronger of the two luminaries is in the Dreshkan of S?rya, or Mangal, the descent is from the world ofYama (world of the death) and, if in Dreshkan of Budh, or ?ani, the descent is from the hell. 43-45. Ascent after Death. According to the following Grahas in Vyaya, Yuvati, Ari, or Randhr Bhava, the native will attain one of the different worlds after death: Guru heaven, Candr, or ?ukr the world of Manes, Mangal and/or S?rya earth (rebirth), Budh and/or ?ani hell. In case the said Bhavas are not occupied, the native will go to the world, indicated by the stronger of the Dreshkan Lords, related to Ari and Randhr Bhava.The relative Grah’s exaltation etc. will denote the high, medium and low status the native will obtain in the said world. 46. Other Grahas and R??is, becoming Marakas, are being discussed in the chapter, related to Dashas. Ch. 45. Avasthas of Grahas 1. O Maharishi Parashar, you have earlier stated, that theAvasthas, or states of the Grahas are to be considered in the context of the effects of the Grahas. Be so kind to tell me about this. 2. O excellent of Brahmins, various kinds ofAvasthas of the Grahas have been expounded. Out of these, I will give you the summary of Baal (infant) and other states of the Grahas. 1. Baal, Kumar,Yuv, Vriddh and MritAvastha (BaalAdiAvasthas). Infant, youthful, adolescent, old and dead are the states of the Grahas, placed in the ascending order at the rate of six degrees in odd R??is. In the case of even R??is this arrangement is in reverse order. (Vriddh -Advanced, Mrit - In extremis) 4. Results. One fourth, half, full, negligible and nil are the grades of the results, due to a Grah in infant, youthful, adolescent, old and dead Avasthas. 5.Awakening, Dreaming and Sleeping States. If a Grah is in its own R??i, or in exaltation, it is said to be in a state of awakening (alertness). In the R??i of a friend, or of a neutral it is in dreaming state, while in an enemy’s R??i, or in debilitation it is in a state of sleeping. 6.According to a Grah, being in Awakening, Dreaming, or Sleeping states, the results, due to it will be full, medium, or nil. 7. Other Kinds of States. There are nine kinds of otherAvasthas, viz. Dipt, Swasth, Pramudit, Shanta, Din, Vikal, Duhkhit, Khal and Kop. 8-10. If a Grah is in its exaltation R??i, it is in DiptAvastha, if in its own R??i, it is in Swasth, if in a great friend’s R??i, it is in Pramudit, if in a friendly R??i, it is in Shanta, if in a neutral R??i, it is in Din, if a Grah is yuti with a malefic, it is in Vikal, if is in an enemy’s R??i, it is in Duhkhit, if in a great enemy’s R??i, it is in Khal and, if a Grah is being eclipsed by S?rya, it is in Kop. Depending on such a state of the Grah, the Bhava, occupied by it will obtain corresponding effects. 11-18. Yet otherAvasthas. Lajjit, Garvit, Kshudhit, Trushit, Mudit and Kshobhit are the other kinds ofAvasthas, due to the Grahas. Placed in Putr Bhava, if a Grah is associated with Rahu, or Ketu, or with S?rya, ?ani, or Mangal, it is in LajjitAvastha. If a Grah is in exaltation, or in Mooltrikon, it is Garvit. If a Grah is in an enemy’s R??i, or yuti with an enemy, or receives a Drishti from an enemy, or even, if a Grah is yuti with ?ani, the Avastha is Kshudhit. If a Grah is in a watery R??i and receives a Drishti from a malefic, but does not receive a Drishti from a benefic, the Avastha is called Trushit. If a Grah is in a friendly R??i, or is yuti with, or receives a Drishti from a benefic, or is yuti with Guru, it is said to be in MuditAvastha. If a Grah is yuti with S?rya and receives a Drishti from, or is yuti with a malefic, or receives a Drishti from an enemy, it is said to be in Kshobhit. The Bhavas, occupied by a Grah in Kshudhit, or in Kshobhit, are destroyed. 19-23. The learned should estimate the effects, due to a Bhava, in the manner, cited above, after ascertaining the strength and weakness. Weak Grahas cause reduction in good effects, while stronger ones give greater effects. If a Grah, posited in Karm Bhava, is in Lajjit, KshudhitAvastha, or KshobhitAvastha, the person will always be subjected to miseries. If a Grah in Putr is in Lajjit, there will be destruction of progeny, or there will be only one surviving child. Surely the wife of the native will die, if there is a Grah in Yuvati in Kshobhit, or in TrushitAvastha. 24-29. Effects of Garvit, Mudit, Lajjit, Kshobhit, Kshudhit and TrushitAvastha.A Grah in GarvitAvastha will cause happiness through new houses and gardens, regalhood, skill in arts, financial gains at all times and improvement in business. A Grah in Mudit Avastha will give residences, clothes, ornaments, happiness from lands and wife, happiness from relatives, living in royal places, destruction of enemies and acquisition of wisdom and learning. A Grah in Lajjit will give aversion to God, loss of intelligence, loss of child, interest in evil speeches and listlessness in good things.A Grah in Kshobhit will give acute penury, evil disposition, miseries, financial debacles, distress to feet and obstruction to income, due to royal wrath. A Grah in Kshudhit will cause downfall, due to grief and passion, grief on account of relatives, physical decline, troubles from enemies, financial distress, loss of physical strength and an eclipsed mind, due to miseries. A Grah in TrushitAvastha will cause diseases through association with females, leading over wicked deeds, loss of wealth, due to one’s own men, physical weakness, miseries, caused by evil people and decline of honour. 30-37. Calculation of Shayan AdiAvasthas. Now I will tell you of the Avasthas, viz. Shayan, Upavesan, Netrapani, Prakash, Gaman,Agaman, Sabh, Agam, Bhojan, Nritya Lips, Kautuk and Nidr and the Chesthas of suchAvasthas. Note the number of the star, occupied by the Grah, for which anAvastha is to be calculated. Multiply that number by the number, denoted by the Grah (S?rya 1 to ?ani 7). The figure so arrived at should again be multiplied by the number of the Nav???, where the Grah is in. Add to this the number of the birth asterism (ruling star, the one, occupied by Candr), the number of Ghatis of birth and the number of R??is, Lagn gained from Mesh (Mesh 1, Vrishabh 2 and so forth). This figure should be divided by 12 and the remainder will indicate the correspondingAvastha of the Grah. The sub-state in the said Avastha can be found out in the following way. Multiply the figure (Sayan 1 to Nidr 12), denoted by the Avastha concerned, by the same figure and increase it by the figure, denoted by the Anka value for the first syllable of the native’s personal name. Divide the product so obtained by 12. The remainder thereof should be further increased by constant additives of the Grahas in the following way: S?rya 5, Candr 2, Mangal 2, Budh 3, Guru 5, ?ukr 3, ?ani 3, Rahu (Ketu) 4. The product so arrived at should be divided by 3. In the process of calculation, if it happens, that the remainder is 1, it is Drishti, if 2, it is Chesht and, if 0, it is Vichesht. Notes. Shayan Adi are of supreme importance, as compared to the other kinds of Avasthas. In place of Nav???, given above, some translators interpret the word A??, as degree, occupied by the Grah, which is obviously not correct. In this connection the reader’s attention is drawn to Balabhadr’s Hora Ratna, Ch. 3, wherein the author, Balabhadr himself, gives an example for S?rya, being in the 7th Nav??? of Simh and thus he considered only 7, as multiplier. He quotesAdhibhut Sagara, as his authority for calculation of Sayan Adi. Agaman Avastha is known, as Gamanechch by some exponents. Anka value is 1 for a, ka, cha, ? a, dha, bha and va, 2 for i, kha, ja, ?ha, na, ma and sha, 3 for u, ga, jha, ta, pa, ya and ?a, 4 for e, gha, ? a, tha, pha, ra and sa, 5 for o, ca, ?ha, da, ba, la and ha. 38-39. Effects of Chesht etc. If the sub-state is Drishti in anAvastha, the results, being stated for the Avastha, will be medium, the effects will be full in Chesht and negligible in Vichesht. The good and bad effects of Grahas should be deciphered, based on the strength and weakness of the Grahas. In exaltation the Grahas reveal effects in a pronounced manner, due to Avasthas. 40-51. Effects of S?rya’sAvasthas. If S?rya is in Sayan Avastha, the native will incur digestive deficiency, many diseases, stoutness of legs, bilious vitiation, ulcer in the anus and heart strokes; if in Upavesan, will suffer poverty, will carry loads, will indulge in litigations, be hard-hearted, wicked and will lose in his undertakings; if is in Netrapani, will always be happy, wise, helpful to others, endowed with prowess and wealth, very happy and will gain royal favours; if in Prakash, will be liberal in disposition, have plenty of wealth, be a significant speaker in the assembly, will perform many meritorious acts, be greatly strong and endowed with charming beauty; if in Gaman, will be disposed to live in foreign places, be miserable, indolent, bereft of intelligence and wealth, be distressed, due to fear and will be short-tempered; if in Agaman, will be interested in others’ wives, be devoid of his own men, be interested in movements and skilful in doing evil deeds, be dirty, ill-disposed and will be a talebearer; if in Sabh, will be disposed to help others, be always endowed with wealth and gems, be virtuous, endowed with lands, new houses and robes, be very strong, very affectionate to his friends and very kindly disposed; if in Agam, will be distressed, due to enemies, fickle-minded, evil-minded, emaciated, devoid of virtuous acts and intoxicated with pride; if in Bhojan, will experience pains in joints, will lose money on account of others’ females, will have strength, declining off and on, be untruthful, will incur head-aches, eat remnant food and will take to bad ways; if in Nritya Lips, will be honoured by the learned, be a scholar, will have knowledge of poetry etc. and will be adored by kings on the earth; if is Kautuk, will always be happy, will be endowed with Vedic Knowledge and will performYagyas, will move amidst kings, have fear from enemies, will be charming-faced and be endowed with knowledge of poetry; if in Nidr, will have a strong tendency towards being drowsy, will live in foreign (distant) places, will incur harm to his wife and will face financial destruction. S?rya in Upavesan will make one an artisan, black in complexion, devoid of learning and miserable. One will serve others. In Netrapani there will be all kinds of happiness, if S?rya is in Putr, Dharm, Karm, orYuvati. In other Bhavas Netrapani of S?rya will give eye diseases and enmity with all. If S?rya is in Prakash, the native will be meritorious, religious and liberal, will enjoy pleasures, be equal to a prince and will enjoy the status of Kuber, the God of wealth. However, the Prakash of S?rya, placed in Yuvati, or Putr will cause loss of the first child and will produce many litigations. If S?rya is in Gaman, the native will incur disease of the feet and will be very mean. If in Agaman, S?rya in Vyaya, or in Yuvati will destroy progeny and will give very limited wealth. If in Agam, S?rya will give many miseries, an ugly appearance and foolishness. However, he will give wealth. S?rya in Bhojan in Dharm will cause many hindrances to spiritual and religious undertakings. In other Bhavas S?rya in Bhojan will cause head and ear diseases, apart from joint pains. Though Maharishi Parashar states, that the native with S?rya in Kautuk Avastha will have fear from enemies, Bal Bhadr exempts such evil effect for the Ari Bhava position. S?rya in Kautuk in other Bhavas will give a number of daughters, two wives, itch, excellence, liberality etc. If S?rya is in Nidr, the native will be predisposed to incur piles and elephantiasis, will experience a lack of peace and he will be liable to lose his first child. 52-63. Effects of Candr’sAvasthas. If Candr is in Sayan, the native will be honourable, sluggish, given to sexual lust and he will face financial destruction; if in Upavesan, will be troubled by diseases, be dull-witted, not endowed with mentionable wealth, will be hard-hearted, will do unworthy acts and will steal others’ wealth; if in Netrapani, will be troubled by great diseases (long lasting in nature), be very garrulous, wicked and will indulge in bad deeds. Should Candr be in Prakash, the native will be famous in the world, will have his virtues exposed through royal patronage, will be surrounded by horses, elephants, females and ornaments, will visit shrines. If Candr is in Gaman with decreasing rays, the native will be sinful, cruel and always troubled by afflictions of sight. If Candr is in Gaman with increasing rays, the native will be distressed, due to fear. If Candr is in Agaman, the native will be honourable, will suffer diseases of the feet, will secretly indulge in sinful acts, will be poor and devoid of intelligence and happiness; if in Sabh, will be eminent among men, honoured by kings and kings of kings, will be very beautiful, will subdue the passion of women and will be skilful in sexual acts, will be virtuous; if in Agam, will be garrulous and virtuous and, if the said Candr is of dark fortnight, the native will have two wives, he will be sick, highly wicked and violent; if in Bhojan, will be endowed with honour, conveyances, attendants, social status, wife and daughters, provided Candr is Full ‘Purna’; if in Bhojan and is of dark fortnight, auspicious effects will fail to come; if in Nritya Lips and is endowed with (fortnightly) strength, will be strong, will have knowledge of songs and will be a critic of beauty of things; if in Nritya Lips and of dark fortnight, i.e. not endowed with strength, the person will be sinful; if in Kautuk, the native will attain kingship, lordship over wealth and skill in sexual acts and in sporting with harlots. Should waxing Candr, being yuti with Guru, be in Nidr, the native will be quite eminent. If waxing Candr is in Nidr, but devoid of Guru’sYuti, the native will lose his wealth on account of females and female jackals will be crying around his abode (as though it were a cemetery). 64 75. Effects of the Avasthas of Mangal. If Mangal is in Sayan, the native will be troubled by wounds, itch and ulcer. If Mangal is placed in Upavesan, the native will be strong, sinful, untruthful, eminent, wealthy and bereft of virtues. If Mangal is placed in Lagn and happens to be in Netrapani, there will be penury; if placed in other Bhavas, Netrapani will confer rulership of a city. Should Mangal be in Prakash, the native will shine with virtues and will be honoured by the king. Mangal in Prakash in Putr will cause loss of children and of wife. If Mangal is in Prakash in Putr and happens to be there with Rahu, a severe (positional) fall will descend on the native. Should Mangal be in Gaman, the native will be always roaming, will have fear of multiple ulcers, will incur misunderstandings with females, will be afflicted by boils, itches etc. and will incur financial decline. If Mangal happens to be in Agaman Avastha, the native will be virtuous, endowed with precious gems, will adore a sharp sword, will walk with the gait of an elephant, will destroy his enemies and will remove the miseries of his people. If Mangal is placed in Sabh and happens to be in exaltation, the native will be skilful in conducting wars, will hold the flag of righteousness aloft and will be wealthy; if Mangal happens to be in Sabh in Putr, or Dharm, the native will be bereft of learning; if Mangal is in Sabh in Vyaya, childlessness and no wife and no friends will result; if Mangal is in other Bhavas in Sabh, the native will be a scholar in a king’s court (poet laureate), be very wealthy, honourable and charitable. If Mangal is in Agam, the native will be devoid of virtues and good deeds, will be distressed by diseases, will acquire diseases of the root of the ears (‘Karan Mularogam’& ‘Padamulam Urumulam’ etc.) and severe gout pains, will be timid and will befriend evil lot. If Mangal is with strength, while in Bhojan Avastha, the native will eat sweet-food; if devoid of strength, will indulge in base acts and be dishonourable. If Mangal is in Nritya Lips, the native will earn wealth through the king and will be endowed with fullness of gold, diamonds and corals in his house; if in Kautuk, will be curious in disposition and will be endowed with friends and sons; if in Kautuk and simultaneously exalted, will be honoured by the king and the virtuous and will be virtuous himself; if in Nidr, will be short-tempered, devoid of intelligence and wealth, will be wicked, fallen from virtuous path and troubled by diseases. Should Mangal be in Upavesan in Lagn, the native will be extremely sinful and he will incur several diseases, will be indigent and not peaceful. If Upavesan occurs for Mangal in Dharm, the native will lose his whole wealth apart from his wife and progeny. Mangal in Netrapani in Lagn will give poverty and will destroy the native’s wife and progeny; if Mangal is in Netrapani in other Bhavas, this confers on the native all kinds of wealth and happiness from wife and children. The Dhan, orYuvati position of Mangal in Netrapani will cause fear from lions and snakes apart from giving earnings from lands. Furthermore the native’s wife will predecease him. Should Mangal be in Prakash in Putr, or in Yuvati, the native will lose his wife and all children. If Mangal is placed in Putr in Prakash and is yuti with ?ani, the native will kill cows. Should Mangal be in Gaman in Lagn, the native will be active in his assignments, will incur diseases of the joints, burning pains in the eyes and will obtain dental afflictions and the like, he will have fear from dogs and will adore the guise of a female. In other Bhavas Mangal in Gaman will bring royal favours, leadership and luxuries of life. Mangal in Agaman will cause piles and diseases of the rectum. If Mangal is in Bhojan, or in Sayan in Putr, or in Randhr, there will be untimely death for the native. In other Bhavas Bhojan of Mangal will confer wealth. Should Mangal be in Nritya Lips and happens to be in Lagn, Dhan, Yuvati, or Karm, the native will receive all kinds of happiness; there will be miseries in abundance, if Mangal is in Nritya Lips and placed in Randhr, or Dharm, apart from incurring untimely death. In other Bhavas Nritya Lips of Mangal will make the native akin to Kuber. Mangal in Yuvati, or in Dharm in Kautuk will give several diseases and death of the first child and wife. In other Bhavas Kautuk will confer scholarship, various kinds of wealth, two wives and more female children. In Nidr Mangal in Lagn, Dhan, Sahaj, Dharm, Karm, or Labh will give scholarship, foolishness and poverty. Putr, orYuvati placement of Mangal in Nidr will give many miseries and many male children. Should Rahu join Mangal in Nidr in any Bhava, the native will have many wives, be miserable and will suffer from some diseases on the surface of the feet. 76-86. Effects of Budh’sAvasthas. Should Budh in Sayan be in Lagn, the native will be lame and will have reddish eyes (like the black bee); if Budh is in Sayan in other Bhavas, the native will be addicted to licentious (disregarding certain rules) pleasures and be wicked. If Budh is in Upavesan in Lagn, the native will possess (the seven principle) virtues; if Budh in Upavesan is in Lagn, receiving a Drishti from a malefic, or Drishtis from malefics, or is yuti with malefics, penury will result; if Budh in Upavesan is in Lagn, receiving a Drishti from a benefic, or Drishtis from benefics, or is yuti with benefics, financial happiness will follow. If Budh is in Netrapani, the native will be devoid of learning, wisdom, well wishers and satisfaction, but he will be honourable; if Budh is in Putr in Netrapani, the subject will be bereft of happiness from wife and sons, will be endowed with (more) female children and will gain abundant finance through royal patronage. If Budh is in Prakash, the native will be charitable, merciful and meritorious, he will cross the boundaries of ocean in respect of many branches of learning, he will be endowed with the great faculty of discrimination and will destroy evil people; if in Gaman, will visit the courts of kings on many occasions and Goddess Lakshmi will dwell in his abode; if in Agaman, the same effects, due to his being in Gaman, will fructify; if in Sabh and happens to be in exaltation, will be affluent and meritorious at all times, will be equal to Kuber, or will be a king, or a minister, will be devoted to Lord Vishnu and Lord Shiva, will be virtuous and will attain full enlightenment. Should Budh be in Agam, the native will serve base men and will gain wealth thereby, will have two sons and one fame bringing daughter. If Budh is in Bhojan, the native will face financial losses through litigations, will physically lose on account of fear from the king, will be fickle-minded and will be bereft of physical and conjugal felicity; if in Nritya Lips, will be endowed with honour, conveyances, corals (gems etc.), sons, friends, prowess and recognition in assembly, due to his scholarship; if Budh in Nritya LipsAvastha is in a malefic’s R??i, the native will be addicted to prostitutes and will long for licentious pleasures. If Budh is in Kautuk in Lagn, the native will be skilful in music; if Budh is in Yuvati, or Randhr with Kautuk, the native will be addicted to courtezans; if Budh in Kautuk is placed in Dharm, the native will be meritorious and attain heavens after death. If Budh is in Nidr, the native will not enjoy comfortable sleep, will be afflicted by neck, or neck joint ‘Samadhi’ diseases, will be devoid of co-born, afflicted by miseries galore, will enter into litigations with his own men and will lose wealth and honour. 87-98. Effects of Guru’sAvasthas. If Guru is in Sayan, the native will be strong, but will speak in whispers, he will be very tawny in complexion, will have prominent cheeks and will have fear from enemies; if in Upavesan, will be garrulous and very proud, will be troubled by the king and enemies and will have ulcers on the feet shanks, face and hands; if in Netrapani, will be afflicted by diseases, be devoid of wealth, fond of music and dances, libidinous, tawny in complexion and will be attached to people of other castes; if in Prakash, will enjoy virtues, will be happy, splendourous and will visit holy places, devoted to Lord Krishna; if Guru in Prakash is exalted, will attain greatness among men and will be equal to Kuber; if in Gaman, will be adventurous, happy on account of friends, scholarly and endowed with Vedic learning and with various kinds of wealth; if in Agaman, serving force, excellent women and the goddess of wealth will never leave the native’s abode; if in Sabh, will attain comparability with Guru (God of speech) in the matter of speech, will be endowed with superior corals, rubies and wealth, will be rich with elephants, horses and chariots and will be supremely learned; if in Agam, will be endowed with various conveyances, honours, retinue (many persons will take good care of him), children, wife, friends and learning, will be equal to a king, extremely noble, fond of literature and will take to the path of the virtuous; if in Bhojan, will always beget excellent food and horses, elephants and chariots, while Lakshmi, the Goddess of Wealth, will never leave his house; if in Nritya Lips, will receive royal honours, be wealthy, endowed with knowledge of moral law ‘Dharma’ and Tantra, will be supreme among the learned and be a great grammarian; if in Kautuk, will be curious in disposition, very rich, will shine, like S?rya in his circles, be exceedingly kind, happy, honoured by the kings, endowed with sons, wealth and just disposition, will be very strong and he will be a scholar in the king’s court; if in Nidr, will be foolish in all his undertakings, will suffer irredeemable penury and will be devoid of righteous acts. 99-110. Effects of ?ukr’sAvasthas. If ?ukr is in Sayan, the native, although strong, will incur dental disease, he will be very short-tempered, bereft of wealth, will seek union with courtezans and be licentious; if in Upavesan, will be endowed with a multitude of nine gems (‘NavaminVraja’) and golden ornaments, be ever happy, will destroy enemies and will be honoured by the king, will have highly increased honours; if in Netrapani in Lagn, Yuvati, or Karm, there will be loss of wealth on account of afflictions of the sense of sight (heavy medical expenses, due to severe eye diseases); if Netrapani occurs, when ?ukr is in other Bhavas, the native will own large houses. Should ?ukr be in Prakash in its own R??i, in its exaltation R??i, or in a friendly R??i, the native will sport, like a lofty elephant, will be equal to a king and be skilful in poetry and music. If ?ukr is in Gaman, the native will not have a long-living mother, will lament over separation from his own people and will have fear from enemies; if in Agaman, will command abundant wealth, will undertake to visit superior shrines, will be ever enthusiastic and will contract diseases of the hand and foot; if in Sabh, will earn eminence in the king’s court, will be very virtuous, will destroy enemies, be equal to Kuber in wealth, will be charitable, will ride on horses and will be excellent among men; if in Agam, there will be no advent of wealth, but there will be troubles from enemies, separation from children and relatives, diseases and lack of pleasures from the wife. Should ?ukr be in Bhojan, the native will be distressed, due to hunger, diseases and many kinds of fear from enemies; if ?ukr is in Kanya in Bhojan, the native will be very rich and will be honoured by scholars. If ?ukr is in Nritya Lips, the native will be skilful in literature and intelligent, will play musical instruments, like lute, tabla etc., be meritorious and very affluent; if in Kautuk, will be equal to Lord Indra, will attain greatness in the assembly, be learned and will have Lakshmi always dwelling in his abode; if in Nidr, will be interested in serving others, will blame others, be heroic, garrulous and will be wandering all over the earth. 111-122. Effects of ?ani’sAvasthas. If ?ani is in Sayan, the native will be troubled by hunger and thirst, will incur diseases in boyhood and later on he will become wealthy; if in Upavesan, will be troubled greatly by enemies, will contract dangers, will have ulcers all over the body, will be self-respected and will be punished by the king; if in Netrapani, will be endowed with a charming female, wealth, royal favour and friends, will have knowledge of many arts and will be an eloquent speaker; if in Prakash, will be very virtuous, very wealthy, intelligent, sportive, splendourous, merciful and devoted to Lord Shiva; if in Gaman, will be very rich and endowed with sons, will grab enemy’s lands and will be a scholar at royal court; if in Agaman, will be akin to a donkey (foolish) and bereft of happiness from wife and children, will always roam pitiably without anybody’s patronage; if in Sabh, the native will have surprising possessions of abundant precious stones and gold, will be endowed with great judicial (political) knowledge and will be extremely brilliant; if in Agam, will incur diseases and will not be skilful in earning royal patronage; if in Bhojan, will enjoy tastes of food, will be weak-sighted and will be fickle-minded, due to mental delusion; if in Nritya Lips, will be righteous, extremely opulent, honoured by the king and brave, heroic in the field of war; if in Kautuk, will be endowed with lands and wealth, will be happy, endowed with pleasures through charming females and learned in poetry, arts etc.; if in Nidr, will be rich, endowed with charming virtues and valorous, will destroy even fierce enemies and will be skilful in seeking pleasures through harlots. 123-134. Effects of Rahu’sAvasthas. If Rahu is in Sayan, the native will experience miseries in abundance, but, if Rahu in Sayan is placed in Vrishabh, Mithun, Kanya, or Mesh, the native will be endowed with wealth and grains. If Rahu is in Upavesan, the native will be distressed, due to ulcers, will be endowed with royal association, be highly honourable and ever devoid of financial happiness; if in Netrapani, will be troubled by eye diseases, will have fear from wicked people, snakes and thieves and will incur financial decline; if in Prakash, will acquire a high position, will perform auspicious acts and will obtain elevation of his financial state, will be highly virtuous, a chief in the king’s court, charming, like freshly formed clouds (that will cause soon rain) and will be very prosperous in foreign places; if in Gaman, will be endowed with numerous children, be scholarly, wealthy, charitable and honoured by the king; if in Agaman, will be very irritable, bereft of intelligence and wealth, crooked, miserly and libidinous; if in Sabh, will be scholarly, miserly and endowed with many virtues, wealth and happiness; if in Agam, will be always mentally distressed, will have fear from enemies and litigations with enemies, be bereft of his own men, will face financial destruction and will be crafty and emaciated; if in Bhojan, will be distressed without food and dull-witted, will not be bold in his acts and will be bereft of conjugal and progenic happiness; if in Nritya Lips, will contract a serious disease, which seems difficult to subdue, will have afflicted eyes and will have fear from enemies, will decline financially and righteously; if in Kautuk, will be devoid of a position (place), be interested in others’ females and will steal others’ wealth; if in Nidr, will be a repository of virtues, will be endowed with wife and children, be bold, proud and very affluent. 135-146. Effects of Ketu’sAvasthas. If Ketu is in Sayan in Mesh, Vrishabh, Mithun, or Kanya, there will be plenty of wealth; if Ketu is in Sayan in other R??is, increased diseases will follow. If Ketu is in Upavesan, the native will suffer from ulcers and will have fear from enemies, windy diseases, snakes and thieves. Should Ketu be in Netrapani, the native will contract eye diseases and will have fear from wicked people, snakes, enemies and people of royal family. If Ketu is in Prakash, the native will be wealthy and righteous, will live in foreign places, be enthusiastic and genuine and will serve the king; if in Gaman, will be endowed with many sons and abundant wealth, be scholarly, virtuous, charitable and excellent among men; if in Agaman, will incur many diseases, will face loss of wealth, will hurt (others) with his teeth (‘Danta Ghatin’), be a tale bearer and will blame others; if in Sabh, will be garrulous, very proud, miserly, licentious and skilful in evil branches of learning; if in Agam, will be a notorious sinner, will enter into litigations with his relatives, will be wicked and troubled by diseases and enemies; if in Bhojan, will always be distressed with hunger, penury and diseases and will roam all over the earth; if in Nritya Lips, will be distressed, due to diseases, will have a floral mark on the eye (white of the pupil), will be impertinent and wicked and will plan evils; if in Kautuk, will seek union with dancing females (prostitutes), will suffer positional displacement, will take to evil paths and will roam all over; if in Nidr, will be endowed with wealth and corns, will be virtuous and will spend his time sportively. 1. General Effects (up to Sloka 155). O Brahmin, if a benefic Grah is in Sayan, there will be benefic effects at all times, according to the learned. 2. If a malefic is in Bhojan, everything will be destroyed and there is no need of a second thought. 3. Should a malefic in Yuvati be in Nidr, auspicious effects will follow, provided, that there is no Drishti from another malefic. 4. Declare without a second thought auspicious effects, following the location of a malefic in Putr Bhava, but only with Nidr, or in Sayan. 5. Untimely death, due to royal wrath, will come to pass, if there is a malefic in Randhr Bhava in Nidr, or in Sayan. 6. If in the case of a malefic in Randhr Bhava in Nidr, or Sayan there happens to be a benefic Drishti, or the Yuti of a benefic, (untimely) death will be in the river Ganges, i.e. Gangetic belt, shrines etc. 7. If there is a malefic in Karm in Sayan, or Bhojan, the native will face many miseries on account of his own deeds. 8. O excellent of the Brahmins, doubtlessly a RajYog will come to pass, if Candr is in Karm in Kautuk, or Prakash. 9. Thus the good and bad effects should be guessed, assessing the strength and weakness of the Grahas, concerning all the Bhavas. Ch. 46. Dashas of Grahas 1. Maitreya said. OVenerable Maharishi Parashar!You are omniscient. There is no subject, with which you are not conversant. Therefore now please favour me with guidance about the different kinds of Dashas (periods) of the various Grahas. 2-5. Maharishi Parashar replied. O Brahmin! Dashas are of many kinds.Amongst them Vimshottari is the most appropriate for the general populace. But the other Dashas, followed in special cases, areAstottari, Shodshottari, Dwadashottari, Panchottari, Shatabdik, Chaturashiti-sama, Dwisaptati-sama, Shastihayani, Shat-trimshat-sama. Our ancients have described these different kinds of Dashas, based on Nakshatras. 6-11. O Brahmin! Some Maharishis have made a mention of Kala and Chakr Dasha, but they have recognized the Kala Chakr Dasha, as supreme.The other kinds of Dashas, propagated by the sages, are Char, Sthir, Kendr, Karak, Brahma Grah, Manduk, Shul, Yogardh, Drig, Trikon, R??i, Panchswara,Yogini, Pind, Nausargik, AshtVarg, Sandhya, Pachak,Tara etc. But in our view all these Dashas are not appropriate. Vimshottari 12-14. Beginning from Kritika, the Lords of Dashas are S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Rahu, Guru, ?ani, Budh, Ketu and ?ukr in that order. Thus, if the Nakshatras from Kritika to the Janm Nakshatr are divided by nine, the remainder will signify the Lord of the commencing Dasha.The remaining Dashas will be of the Grahas in the order, given above. In KaliYuga the natural life-span of a human being is generally taken, as 120 years. Therefore Vimshottari Dasha is considered to be the most appropriate and the best of all Dashas. 1. The periods of Dashas of S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Rahu, Guru, ?ani, Budh, Ketu and ?ukr are 6, 10, 7, 18, 16, 19, 17, 7 and 20 in that order. 2. To find out the remainder of the Dasha, operating at the time of birth, first find out the expired portion of the Dasha of the concerned Grah. This is done, as follows. Multiply the Dasha period of the Grah concerned by the period of the stay of Candr in Janm Nakshatr, that has expired and divide that amount by the total period of the stay of Candr in that Nakshatr. The figure in years, months etc. so arrived at will be the expired period of the Dasha. If this figure is deducted from the total period of the Dasha, we will get the balance of Dasha at the time of birth. Ashtottari 17-20. Maharishi Parashar said. O Brahmin, the sages have recommended the adoption ofAshtottari, when Rahu not being in Lagn, in any other Kendr, orTrikon to the Lord of the Lagn. From 4 Nakshatras fromArdra commences the Dasha of S?rya, from 3 after that begins the Dasha of Candr, 4 after that will bring the Dasha of Mangal, 3 after that the Lord of Dasha will be Budh, 4 therefrom will have ?ani, as the Dasha Lord, 3 thereafter the Lord will be Guru, Rahu will be the Lord of the Dasha 4 Nakshatras after that and then ?ukr will take over the lordship of the Dasha 3 Nakshatras from the last one mentioned above. The Lord of the Dasha at birth will be determined by counting in this order up to the Janm Nakshatr. The duration ofAshtottari Dasha for S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, ?ani, Guru, Rahu and ?ukr are 6, 15, 8, 17, 10, 19, 12 and 21 in that order. Thus in this Dasha system only 8 Grahas play the role of Dasha Lords, Ketu having been denied this privilege. 21-22. The Dashas of the various Grahas have been specified above. In the case of malefic Grahas the Dasha span of one Nakshatr is ? of the Dasha of the Grah. It is 1/3rd in the case of benefics. Thus the expired portion of the Dasha is calculated, according to the method, followed forVimshottari Dasha, by multiplying the Bhayat, i.e. the expired period of the stay of Candr in the Janm Nakshatr, by the Dasha portion of the Janm Nakshatr and dividing it by Bhabhog, i.e. the total period of the stay of Candr in the Janm Nakshatr. Then the balance of Dasha at birth can also be ascertained. If Uttarashadha happens to be the Janm Nakshatr, the duration of its first three Padas is taken, as Bhabhog and the Dasha calculations should be done accordingly. The Dasha and calculations forAbhijit Nakshatr are done by taking the 4th Pad of Uttarashadha plus the 15th part of the beginning of Shravan. For Shravan the Bhabhog would be the total of its duration in Ghatikas minus the 1/15th part of the beginning of Shravan. Shodshottari 23. It will be advisable to adopt the Shodshottari, if the birth is in the day in Krishna Paksh (dark half of the month), or at night in Shukla Paksh (bright half). 24-26. The Dasha may be adopted, when the Lagn is in the Hora of Candr with birth in the Krishna Paksh, or, when Lagn is in the Hora of S?rya with birth in the Shukla Paksh. Count the number of Nakshatras from Pushya to the Janm Nakshatr. Divide this number by 8. The remainder will indicate the Dashas of S?rya, Mangal, Guru, ?ani, Ketu, Candr, Budh and ?ukr. The Dashas of the above Grahas are of 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 years. Dwadashottari 27-28. This Dasha system will be appropriate for one, whose Lagn is in the Nav??? of ?ukr. Count from Janm Nakshatr to Revati. Divide this number by 8. The remainder will indicate the Dasha of the Grah concerned. The Dasha order is S?rya, Guru, Ketu, Budh, Rahu, Mangal, ?ani, Candr. The Dashas will be of 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19 and 21 years of the Grahas. Panchottari (29-30)This Dasha is considered suitable for those, whose Lagn is Kark and also in the Kark Dvadash???. Count fromAnuradha up to the Janm Nakshatr and divide the number by 7. The remainder will indicate the Dasha.The order of the Dasha Lords is S?rya, Budh, ?ani, Mangal, ?ukr, Candr and Guru. The Dashas of the Grahas are 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 years. Shatabdik (31-32)This Dasha system has been considered appropriate, if Lagn isVargottama.This happens, when Lagn in the R??i Kundali and the Nav??? Lagn are in the same R??i. (33-34) Count from Revati to the Janm Nakshatr and divide this number by seven.The remainder will indicate the Lords of Dashas in this order: S?rya, Candr, ?ukr, Budh, Guru, Mangal and ?ani. Their Dashas will be of 5, 5, 10, 10, 20, 20 and 30 years. Chaturashiti-sama 35-36. Chaturashiti-sama Dasha is considered appropriate in cases, where the Karm’s Lord is placed in Karm. Count from Swati to the Janm Nakshatr and divide this number by 7. The remainder will indicate the Dasha Lords in the following order: S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani. The Dasha period of each Grah is 12 years. Dwisaptati-sama 37-39. This Dasha system is considered suitable in cases, where the Lord of Lagn is in Lagn, or in Yuvati. Count from Mul to the Janm Nakshatr and divide the number by 8. The remainder will determine the Dasha Lords in the following order: S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, ?ani and Rahu. In this Dasha system all the eight Grahas have Dashas of 9 years each. Shastihayani 40-41. This Dasha may be adopted in cases, where S?rya is posited in Lagn. The order of Dasha Lords in this system is, as follows: Guru, S?rya, Mangal, Candr, Budh, ?ukr, ?ani and Rahu. The following shows the Nakshatras, falling under the various Dasha Lords. The Dashas of Guru, S?rya and Mangal are of 10 years. The remaining Grahas have Dashas of 6 years each. Guru (Ashvini, Bharani, Kritika, Punarvasu), S?rya (Rohini, Mrigashira, Ardra, U.Ashadha), Mangal (Pushya, Aslesha, Magha, Revati), Candr (P.Phalguni, U.Phalguni, Hast), Budh (Swati, Vishakah,Anuradha), ?ukr (Jyeshtha, Mul, P.Ashadha), ?ani (Abhijit, Shravan, Dhanishtha), Rahu (Shatabhisha, P.Bhadra, U.Bhadra). Shat-trimshat-sama 42-43. Count from Shravan to the Janm Nakshatr and divide the number by 8. The remainder 1 etc. will indicate the Dasha Lords, whose order will be, as follows: Candr, S?rya, Guru, Mangal, Budh, ?ani, ?ukr and Rahu. Their Dashas will be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 years. If the birth is during the day and Lagn is in the Hora of S?rya and, if the birth is at night and Lagn is in the Hora of Candr, adoption of this system would be preferable. Kaal 44-49. 5 Ghatikas before the sight of the semi-disk of the setting S?rya and 5 Ghatikas after that and 5 Ghatikas before and after the rising of S?rya, that is 10 Ghatikas in the evening and 10 Ghatikas in the morning, respectively. The total period of both these Sandhyas (twilight) is said to be 20 Ghatikas. The 20 Ghatikas of the night have been given the name Purna and the 20 Ghatikas of the day have been given the name Mugdha. The Sandhya at the time of sunrise is called Khanda and the Sandhya at the time of sunset is said to be Sudh. Both of these Sandhyas are of 10 Ghatikas each. If the birth is in Purna, or Mugdha, its past Ghatikas should be multiplied by 2 and the product should be divided by 15. The figure so arrived at should be converted into years, months etc. By multiplying it by the serial number of S?rya and other Grahas in their normal order, we will get the Kaal Dasha of these Grahas. If the birth is during Sandhya, then its past Ghatikas should be multiplied by 4 and the product divided by 15. The figure so arrived at in terms of years, months etc. should be multiplied by the serial number of S?rya and the other Grahas to get the Kaal Dasha of all the nine Grahas. Chakr 50-51. If the birth is at night, the Dasha will commence from Lagn R??i. If the birth is during the day, the Dasha will start from the R??i, in which the Lord of Lagn is placed. If the birth is during Sandhya, the Dasha will begin from the R??i of the second Bhava. The Dasha of each R??i is 10 years. As it is the Dasha system of the 12 R??is in the Zodiac, it has been named, as Chakr Dasha. Kaal Chakr 52-53. Maharishi Parashar said. O Brahmin! Now, after making obedience to Lord Shiva, I shall describe the Kala Chakr Dasha.Whatever was related by Lord Shiva to Goddess Parvati, is being explained by me for the use of sages to be utilized for the welfare of the people. 54-55. By drawing vertical and horizontal lines, prepare 2 Kundalis, Savya and Apsavya, of 12 apartments (Kosthas) each. From the second Kostha in each Kundali fix the R??is Mesh,Vrishabh, Mithun, Kark, Simh, Kanya, Tula, Vrischik, Dhanu, Makar, Kumbh, Meen.Then Nakshatras may be incorporated in the manner, indicated hereafter. These Kundalis, indicative of the 12 R??is, are called Kala Chakr. 56-58. Write Ashvini, Bharani and Kritika in the Savya Chakr and Rohini, Mrigashira, Ardra in the Apsavya. Then incorporate the three following Nakshatras, Punarvasu, Pushya and Aslesha in the Savya and Magha, Purvaphalguni and Uttaraphalguni in the Apsavya. Then incorporate the three following, Hast, Chitra and Swati in the Savya and Vishakah, Anuradha and Jyeshtha in the Apsavya. Then incorporate Mul, Purvashadha and Uttarashadha in the Savya and Shravan, Dhanishtha and Shatabhisha in the Apsavya. Finally incorporate the last three Nakshatras, Purvabhadrapad, Uttarabhadrapad and Revati in the Savya Chakr. Now there will be 15 Nakshatras in the Savya and 12 Nakshatras in the Apsavya, (because for the 12 R??is there are 12 Padas of 3 Nakshatras, the Nav???as). The Padas ofAshvini, Punarvasu, Hast, Mul, Purvabhadrapad, Kritika, Aslesha, Swati, Uttarashadha and Revati of the Savya should be reckoned in the same manner, as the Padas ofAshvini. 1. Now I shall describe in detail, how the Deha and Jiva should be reckoned in the Padas (quarters) of the Nakshatras. 2. In the first Pad ofAshvini Mesh is indicative of Deha (body) and Dhanu is indicative of Jiva (life). And the Lords of Mesh, Vrishabh, Mithun, Kark, Simh, Kanya, Tula, Vrischik and Dhanu are Lords of the Dashas in the order, as described before. 3. In the second Pad ofAshvini Makar is Deha and Mithun is Jiva and the Lords of the nine R??is from Makar to Mithun are Lords of the Dashas. 4. In the third Pad of the ten Nakshatras, beginning fromAshvini, Vrishabh is Deha and Mithun is Jiva. The Lords of the R??isVrishabh, Mesh, Meen, Kumbh, Makar, Dhanu, Mesh,Vrishabh and Mithun are Lords of the Dashas in that order. 63-64. For the 4th Pad of the 10 Nakshatras, beginning fromAshvini, Kark is Deha and Meen is Jiva and the Lords of the nine R??is from Kark to Meen are the Lords of Dashas. 1. In the four Padas of the 5 Nakshatras, Bharani, Pushya, Chitra, Purvashadha and Uttarabhadrapad, Deha and Jiva are the same, as for Bharani. 2. In the first Pad of BharaniVrischik is Deha and Meen is Jiva and the Lords of the R??isVrischik,Tula, Kanya, Kark, Simh, Mithun, Vrishabh, Mesh and Meen are the Lords of Dashas in this order. 3. In the 2nd Pad of Bharani Kumbh is Deha and Kanya is Jiva and the Lords of Kumbh, Makar, Dhanu, Mesh, Vrishabh, Mithun, Kark, Simh and Kanya are the Lords of Dashas in that order. 4. In the 3rd Pad of BharaniTula is Deha and Kanya is Jiva and Lords of the R??is Tula, Vrischik, Dhanu, Makar, Kumbh, Meen,Vrischik,Tula and Kanya are the Dasha Lords in this order. 5. In the 4th Pad of Bharani Kark is Deha and Kumbh is Jiva and the Lords of the R??is Kark, Simh, Mithun,Vrishabh, Mesh, Meen, Kumbh, Makar and Dhanu are the Dasha Lords in this order. 71-72. O Brahmin! I have thus given you the description of Savya Chakr. Now I shall give the description ofApsavya Chakr. Prepare a similar chart of 12 apartments and from the 2nd apartment onwards place the R??is fromVrischik onwards in the reverse order. In this chart Deha and Jiva would be the same for Rohini, Magha,Vishakah and Shravan, as for Rohini. 73-76. In the first Pad of Rohini Kark is Deha and Dhanu is Jiva. The Lords of the R??is Dhanu, Makar, Kumbh, Meen, Mesh,Vrishabh, Mithun, Simh and Tula will be the Dasha Lords in this order. In the 2nd Tula will be Deha and Kanya the Jiva and the Lords of the R??is Kanya, Tula, Vrischik, Meen, Kumbh, Makar, Dhanu, Vrischik and Vrischik will be the Dasha Lords. In the 3rd Kumbh will be Deha and Kanya Jiva.The Lords of the R??is Kanya, Simh, Kark, Mithun,Vrishabh, Mesh, Dhanu, Makar and Kumbh will be the Dasha Lords. In the 4th Vrischik will be Deha and Meen Jiva and the Lords of the R??is Meen, Mesh,Vrishabh, Mithun, Simh, Kark, Kanya, Tula and Vrischik will be the Lords. 77. In the 4 Padas of the Apsavya Nakshatras Mrigashira, Ardra, Purvaphalguni, Uttaraphalguni,Anuradha, Jyeshtha, Dhanishtha and Shatabhisha the Deha and Jiva and the Dasha Lords will be the same, as for Mrigashira. 78-81. In the first Pad of Mrigashira Kark is Deha and Meen is Jiva and the Lords of the R??is Meen, Kumbh, Makar, Dhanu, Vrischik, Tula, Kanya, Simh and Kark will be the Dasha Lords in this order. In the 2nd Vrishabh is Deha and Mithun is Jiva and the Lords of the R??is Mithun, Vrishabh, Mesh, Dhanu, Makar, Kumbh, Meen, Mesh and Vrishabh will be the Dasha Lords. In the 3rd Makar is Deha and Mithun is Jiva and the Lords of the R??is Mithun, Simh, Kark, Kanya, Tula, Vrischik, Meen, Kumbh and Makar will be the Dasha Lords. In the 4th Mesh will be Deha and Dhanu Jiva and the Lords of the R??is Dhanu,Vrischik,Tula, Kanya, Simh, Kark, Mithun, Vrishabh and Mesh will be the Dasha Lords. 1. Maharishi Parashar said. O Brahmin!The description of the Deha and Jiva of the Padas of the Apsavya Nakshatras and the Dasha Lords is the same, as narrated by Lord Mahadeva to Goddess Parvati. 2. Maitreya said. OVenerable Maharishi Parashar! Now please guide me about the Dasha spans of the Dasha Lords, described by you. Please also demonstrate, how the commencement of the Dasha, its expired and the remaining periods at the birth are to be calculated. 3. Maharishi Parashar said. 5, 21, 7, 9, 10, 16 and 4 years are the Dasha spans of S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani. 85-86. The span of life of a person is determined from the Padas (A??as) of the Nakshatr at the time of birth, or the time of query and the years allotted to the 9 R??is, commencing from it (the Pad of the Nakshatr). Some sages are of the view, that the person will enjoy full span of life (Purna Ayu), if his birth is at the commencement of the Padas, will have middle span of life (Madhaya Ayu), if the birth is in the middle of the Padas and short span of life (‘Alap Ayu’), or will face death-like sufferings, if the birth is at the end of the Padas of the Nakshatr. 87-88. According to this principle, we should be acquainted with the Padas of the Nakshatras. Now I shall tell you, how the calculations are made, according to the proportion of the Padas of a Nakshatr. The number ofAshvini etc., whichever may be the past Nakshatras, should be divided by 3. Thereafter the remainder should be multiplied by 4. To the figure so made available the Pad of the present Nakshatr should be added. The product will be the Nav??? from Mesh onwards. 89. The number of years (Purna Ayu) are, as under. For the A?? in Mesh 100 years, in Vrishabh 85 years, in Mithun 83 years, in Kark 86 years. The number of years will be the same for R??is, situated the 5th and 9th to them. 90-91. Multiply the past Ghatikas, Palas etc. of the Pad of the Nakshatr, in which a person is born, by the existing Dasha years and divide it by 15. The result will indicate the expired period of the Dasha in years, months etc. By deducting it from the total number of years allotted, we get the balance of Dasha at birth. The Dasha should be taken, as commencing from that R??i. 1. Multiply the past Ghatikas, Palas etc. of the present Pad of the Nakshatr by the number of years and divide the product by the fourth part of Bhabhog. The years etc. so obtained may then be deducted from the total Dasha period. The result will be the balance of Dasha at birth in years, months etc. 2. The past Kalas (minutes) of the Nav???, in which Candr may be placed, should be multiplied by the years, allotted to the Dasha and the product should be divided by 200. The resulting years etc. will be the expired portion of the Dasha. By deducting them from the total number of years the balance of the Dasha at birth is obtained. 94-95. In the Savya Chakr the firstA?? is called Deha and the last Jiva. The opposite is the case in the Apsavya Chakr. Therefore the calculations should be based on the Deha etc. in the Savya Chakr and on the Jiva etc. in Apsavya. We give below the Savya andApsavya Kaal Chakr Charts. For Example.The birth is in Mrigashira 4th Pad. It is in the Apsavya Kaal Chakr. The Lord of Deha is Mangal and that of Jiva is Guru. The Bhabhog of Mrigashira is 59/31 (59 Ghatikas 31 Palas) and Bhayat is 58/15 (58 Ghatikas 15 Palas). ? of the Bhabhog comes to 14/52/44. That would be the value of one Pad. Multiplying this by 3 will get Ghatikas of 3 Padas, namely 44/38/15. Deducting this from Bhayat, the past Ghatikas, Palas etc. of the 4th Pad will be 13/36/45. The full Dasha years are 100. Multiplying this by 13/36/45 we get 1300/3600/4500 = 1361/15. This divided by 15 will give the expired period at birth, namely 90 years and 9 months. See the Kaal Chakr. There we count from Jiva etc. to Deha. In the 4th Pad of Mrigashira Jiva is in Dhanu and Deha in Mesh.Therefore, by deducting the total of years from Dhanu to Mithun, namely 77, from 90 years 9 months, we get the expired period ofVrishabh, namely 13 years and 9 months. By deducting this from the present 16 years of ?ukr, we will get 2 years and 3 months, as the balance of Dasha at birth. Accordingly, like Vimshottari Dasha, the order of Dasha will be Vrishabh, Mesh, Dhanu, Vrischik etc. For Example. Suppose, that at the time of birth of a person in Kritika Nakshatr the longitude of Candr (Candr Spast) is 1r4°50’. This converted into Kalas will be 2090 at birth. The Dasha should be taken, as commencing from that. Divide the Kalas by 800 (1 Nakshatr). The result will be the 2nd Nakshatr, namely Bharini and the remainder will be 490. These will be the past Kalas of Kritika. There are 200 Kalas in one Pad (Nav???). Divide 490, the past Kalas of Kritika, by 200. We will then get 2, as past Padas and the remainder 90 will represent the past Kalas of the present Nakshatr. By multiplying this by 83, the Dasha years, we will get 7470, which, divided by 200, will indicate the expired portion of the Dasha, as 37 years, 4 months and 6 days. By deducting the years of Deh???, commencing fromVrishabh, in the orderVrishabh, Mesh, Meen, Kumbh (16+7+10+4 = 37), we will get 0 years, 4 months and 6 days. This will be the expired portion of Makar. Deducting this from 4, the Dasha period of Makar, we get the balance of the Dasha of Makar, namely 3 years, 7 months and 24 days. See in this connection the Savya Kaal Chakr. Gati of R??is in the Kaal Chakr 96-98. There are three kinds of movements (Gati) of the R??is in the Kaal Chakr, namely Manduki, Markati and Simhavlokan.The movement of one R??i by jumping over one R??i is known, as Manduki Gati. Backward movement to the previous R??i is called Markati Gati. The movement of a R??i to the 5th and 9th R??i is said to be Simhavlokan. 99-100. Movement from Kanya to Kark and from Simh to Mithun is Manduki Gati. Movement from Simh to Kark is Markati Gati. Movement from Meen to Vrischik and from Dhanu to Mesh is called Simhavlokan Gati. Effects of Dashas of R??is, as a Result of these Gati 101-102. The effects of the Dasha of the R??is with Manduki Gati in the Savya Chakr are distress to friends, relations, parents and elders and there is likely to be cause for trouble from poison, weapons, thieves and enemies. In the Manduki Dasha of the Gati of a R??i from Simh to Mithun there is the likelihood of the death of the mother, or self, trouble from Government and possibility of brain fever. 103. The effects of the Dasha of R??i with Markati Gati in the Savya Chakr are loss of wealth, agricultural products and animals, death of father, or an elderly close relation and feeling of lethargy. 104-105. The effects of the Dasha of the R??is with Simhavlokan Gati in the Savya Chakr are possibility of injury from animals, loss of amity with friends, distress to near relations, drowning in a well, fall from animals, possibility of harm from poison, weapons and diseases and destruction of residential dwelling. 106-108. In the Dasha of the R??is with the Manduki Gati in the Apsavya Chakr the effects will be distress to wife and conditions, loss of children, possibility of feverish conditions and loss of position. In the Dasha of the R??is with the Markati Gati there may be danger from watery places, loss of position, distress from father, punishment from Government and wandering in the forests; with the Simhavlokan there may be destruction of the dwelling and death of father etc. 109-111. If the movement is from Meen to Vrischik, the native may suffer from fever; if from Kanya to Kark, there may be loss of brothers and kinsmen; if from Simh to Mithun, there may be ill health of the wife; if from Simh to Kark, the native may die; if from Dhanu to Mesh, there may be death of uncles and similar relations. If the R??i is yuti with a malefic, adverse conditions may be expected in the Dasha of the R??i. Favourable effects will be felt in its Dasha, if the R??i is yuti with a benefic. 112-113. O Brahmin! In the Kaal Chakr Dasha favourable and unfavourable effects may be predicted, after taking into account the directions of the R??is and Grahas. 114-119. If the movement is from Kanya to Kark, good results are realized in places, located in the East and at that time journeys to the places in the North prove fruitful. Unfavourable effects will be felt in places, located in the West and the South. It will be advisable not to undertake journeys in those directions in the Dasha of these R??is. If the movement is from Simh to Mithun, no journey should be undertaken to places, located in the East. However, the journeys to the South-West will prove fruitful in the Dasha of those R??is. If the movement is from Kark to Simh, journeys during that period to the South will prove unfavourable and result in loss and the native has to return from the South to theWest. If the movement is from Meen to Vrischik, there will distress, if the native goes to the North. The same would happen, if the movement is from Dhanu to Makar. There may be ill health, imprisonment, or death, if the movement is from Dhanu to Mesh.There may be gains, comforts and property and marriage, if the movement is from Dhanu to Vrischik. It will not be advisable to undertake journeys to theWest during the related period, if the movement is from Simh to Kark. Favourable results should be predicted, if the R??is are yuti with benefics and adverse, if the R??is are yuti with malefics. 120-122. According to the above-mentioned Kaal Chakr, the person, born in the A??as of the various R??is, will be, as under. MeshA?? brave and a thief,Vrishabh wealthy, Mithun learned, Kark king, Simh respected by king, Kanya learned,Tula minister, or adviser, Dhanu sinful, Kumbh businessman, Meen wealthy. 123-128. If the Deha, or Jiva R??is are yuti with S?rya, Mangal, ?ani, or Rahu, the native will die. Worse results may be expected, if the Deha and Jiva R??is are yuti with two, or all of them. If there is a malefic in Deha R??i, the native suffers ill health; a malefic in a Jiva R??i will make the native very timid. If the Deha and/or Jiva R??i are yuti with two malefics, there will be distress and diseases. Three malefics in the Deha and/or Jiva R??i will cause premature death. Four malefics in the Deha and Jiva R??i will cause definite death. If both the Deha and Jiva R??is are occupied by malefics, there will be fear from king and thieves and death of the native. If S?rya is in the Deha, or Jiva R??i, there will be danger from fire. Candr in the Deha, or Jiva R??i will cause danger from water, Mangal fear from weapons, Budh fear from windy troubles, ?ani fear from Gulma (a disease), Rahu and Ketu fear from poison. If the Deha, or Jiva R??is are occupied by Budh, Guru and ?ukr, the native will be wealthy, will enjoy all kinds of comforts and will have good health. Mixed results may be expected, if the Deha and Jiva R??is are occupied by both benefics and malefics. 129-130. In the Dasha of the R??is, owned by malefics, the body and soul will be in distress. The effects will be favourable in the Dasha of the R??is, owned by benefics. If a malefic R??i is occupied by a benefic Grah, or, if a benefic R??i is occupied by a malefic Grah, the effects will be of a mixed nature. Effects of Kaal Chakr Dasha of the R??is in Lagn and other Bhavas. 131-132. In the Kaal Chakr Dasha of the R??i in Lagn the body remains healthy and the native spends a life with many kinds of comforts. If the Lagn R??i is a benefic one, the good effects are realized fully. If the Lagn R??i is a malefic R??i, there is likelihood of ill health. If a Grah in exaltation, or in its own R??i occupies Lagn, the native is respected by the king, or government and acquires wealth. 133-134. In the Chakr Dasha of the R??i in Dhan the native receives good food, enjoys happiness of wife and children, gains wealth, achieves progress in the educational sphere, becomes a clever conversationalist and moves in good society. If the R??i be a benefic, good effects are realized in full, otherwise the effects would be of a mixed nature. 135-136. Happiness from co-borns, valour, patience, comforts, acquisition of gold, ornaments and clothes and recognition by the king, or government, are the effects in the Kaal Chakr Dasha of the R??i in Sahaj. If the R??i is a benefic, the good results are realized in full, otherwise adverse effects may also be experienced. 137-138. Good relations with kinsmen, acquisition of land, houses, or a kingdom, conveyances and clothes and enjoyment of sound health, are the effects of the Chakr Dasha of the R??i in Bandhu. If the R??i is a benefic one, the good effects are realized in full. If it is a malefic R??i, adverse results are also experienced. 139-140. Being blessed with wife and children, favours from Government, enjoyment of sound health, good relations with friends, achievement of fame, good progress in the educational sphere, patience and valour are the effects of the Chakr Dasha of the R??i in Putr. If the R??i is a benefic one, the good results are enjoyed in full. If the R??i is a malefic one, adverse effects are also experienced. 141-142. Danger from the king, fire and weapons and the possibility of suffering from diabetes, Gulma and jaundice are the effects in the Chakr Dasha of the R??i in Ari. If the R??i is a malefic one, the above adverse effects will be experienced in full. There will be some mitigation of the evil effects in the case of a benefic R??i. 143-144. Marriage, conjugal happiness, being blessed with children, gain of agricultural products, cows and clothes, favours and recognition from the king and achievement of fame, are the effects in the Chakr Dasha of the R??i in Yuvati. The beneficial results will be experienced in full, if the R??i is a benefic one. Meagre good effects will be realized in the case of a malefic R??i. 145-146. Destruction of a residential house, distress, loss of wealth, poverty and danger from enemies are the effects of the Chakr Dasha of the R??i in Randhr. The adverse effects will be realized in full, if the R??i is a malefic one. Some mitigation in evil effects may be expected in the case of a benefic R??i. (147-157) … …Char 158-166. Now I will tell you about the working out of the Dasha years ofVrischik and Kumbh. If both the Lords of the two R??is,Vrischik and Kumbh, are placed in their own R??is, their Dasha will be of 12 years. Otherwise the Dasha will be of the number of years, indicated by the number, counted from that R??i to the R??i, occupied by its Lord. If one Grah be in his own R??i and the other in any other R??i, the Dasha will be of the number of years counted, from the above first R??i to the other. If the Lords are in different R??is, the counting is to be done up to the R??i, which is stronger. The R??i, which has a Grah, placed in it, is considered more powerful than the R??i without a Grah in it. If both are with Grahas in them, the one with more Grahas would be considered more powerful. If both R??is are occupied by an equal number of Grahas, the strength of the R??i itself should be taken into account. The principle for considering the Bal of the R??i is, that the Fixed R??i is considered stronger than the Movable one and the Dual R??i is considered more powerful than the Fixed R??i. If there is equality in the strength of the R??is, then to determine the number of years of Dasha counting should be done up to the R??i with bigger number. If one R??i is occupied by a Grah in exaltation, the counting should be done up to that R??i only. In addition 1 should be added in the number of years in the case of a R??i with an exalted Grah and 1 should be deducted from the number of years in the case of a R??i with a Grah in debilitation. The prediction should be made after calculating the Dashas in this manner. 167. If the R??i in Dharm Bhava is in an odd Pad, the counting should be from the R??i in the Lagn onwards. The counting would be in the reverse order, if the Pad is even. The Dashas of R??is have to be fixed, keeping this in view. For Example. In the above Tula is the R??i in Dharm Bhava in an odd Pad. Amongst the Lords of Lagn, ?ani and Rahu, Rahu is associated with a Grah. Therefore Rahu is more powerful than, ?ani. Therefore counting should be done up to Rahu. Kumbh is in even Pad, therefore counting has to be done from Kumbh up to Rahu in the reverse order, by which the Char Dasha for Kumbh would come to 8 years. Mesh is in odd Pad. Therefore the Char Dasha for Mesh will be one year. The Dasha of other R??is should be calculated in the same manner. Sthir 168-169. Maharishi Parashar said. Now I am going to describe the Sthir Dasha. In this Dasha system 7, 8 and 9 years are the Dasha spans of the Movable (Char), Fixed (Sthir) and Dual (Dvisva Bhava) R??is. In this system the Dasha of the 12 R??is begins from the Brahm Grah Ashrit R??i. The Dashas are counted onwards from the odd R??is and in the reverse order from the even R??is. 170-173. Maitreya said. O great Sage! Now please enlighten me how the Brahm Grah is picked out in a chart. Maharishi Parashar said. From amongst the Lords ofAri, Randhr and Vyaya the Grah, who may possess the greatest strength and is placed in Lagn, or in Yuvati with strength, the one, placed in an odd R??i within sixth Bhava from the Bhava concerned, is called the Brahm Grah. The Lord of Randhr in Randhr is also accepted, as Brahm Grah. If ?ani, or Rahu/Ketu obtain Brahmatva (qualifications of Brahm Grah), they become Brahm Grah. If a number of Grahas obtain Brahmatva, the one with the largest number of degrees would become Brahm Grah. If there is parity in the degrees of such Grahas, the most powerful amongst them would become Brahm Grah. Yogardha 174. The spans of Dashas of the R??is in the Yogardha Dasha system are half of the total of the spans of Char and Sthir Dashas. The Dasha will commence from the R??i of Lagn, orYuvati, whichever is stronger. The order of the Dashas of the 12 R??is will be counted onwards, if the opening Dasha R??i is an odd one. If it be an even R??i, the Dashas will be in reverse order. Kendradi 175-176. In this system there are Dashas of Fixed R??is in the Kendr etc. from Lagn, or fromYuvati, whichever is stronger. If Lagn, orYuvati with strength is placed in an odd R??i, the Kendr etc. are counted in the onward order. If it be in an even R??i, the counting will be in the backward, or reverse order. In them also the Dashas would be in the order of comparative strength of the R??is. The order of Dashas would be the same, as reckoned from the Atma Karak. The spans of Dashas would be the same, as they are in the Char Dasha. In calculating the years of Dashas of Grahas, counting is done from the Grah to his own R??i. The years of Dashas would be the number, arrived at by counting up to the R??i of the Grah, which is stronger, or more in number. 177. If a Grah owns two R??is, the Dasha years will be equal to the number, which is greater, when counted from the R??i, occupied by him. Notes. Under this system Dashas are of two kinds, namely Lagn Kendradi and Atma Karak Kendradi. There are also Kendradi R??i Dasha, or Kendradi Grah Dasha in both the Dasha systems, mentioned above. Karak 178. The system, under which the first Dasha is of the Atma Karak and the subsequent Dashas are of the remaining 7 Karakas in their order is known, as Karak Dasha. In this system the Dasha years are equal to the number of R??is, counted from Lagn up to the Karak concerned. Manduk 179-180. Under the Manduk Dasha system the Dasha commences from Lagn, orYuvati Bhava, whichever is stronger. If the R??i of commencement is an odd R??i, the Dashas of 3 Movable, 3 Fixed and 3 Dual R??is will be counted in the onwards order. They will be in the reverse order in the case of an even R??i. In this system the Dasha years will be the same, as in Sthir Dasha. In this system every Dasha is of the next 3rd R??i. Shula 181-182. Some sages have designed the Shula Dasha for determining the time of death. In this system the Dasha commences from Dhan, or Randhr, whichever is stronger. If the R??i is an odd one, the order of the Dasha R??is will be onwards. It will be backwards in the case of an even R??i. The Dasha years in this system are, as adopted for the Sthir Dasha.There is a possibility, that death appears in the Dasha of the Marak R??i, which has greater strength. Trikon 183-184. In this system the first Dasha commences from the strongest amongst the R??is in Kon (Trikon) to Lagn (Tanu, Putr and Dharm). This system is similar to the Char Dasha. Here also the Dashas of the R??is will be in the onwards order in the case of odd R??is and in the reverse order in the case of even R??is. The Dasha years will be similar to that of Char Dasha. It has been named Trikon because of the commencement of the Dasha from the R??is in Konas. Dirga 185-187. In this system the order of the Dashas is, as follows: the R??i, occupying Dharm, the R??is, receiving a Drishti from the R??i in Dharm, the R??i in Karm, the R??is, receiving a Drishti from the R??i in Karm, the R??i in Labh and the R??is, receiving a Drishti from the R??i in Labh. As this system is mostly based on Drishtis, it has been named, as Dirga Dasha.Three different processes are adopted for the Movable, Fixed and Dual R??is from Dharm, Karm and Labh. According to them, R??i, which receives a Drishti from the Movable R??i, is counted backwards and the R??i, receiving a Drishti from the Fixed R??i, is counted onwards. In the case of the Dual R??i, if it is odd, the counting is onwards and the order is backwards in case of an even R??i for the R??is, receiving a Drishti. Notes. The intention is, that from the point of view of Drishti the process of R??i, receiving a Drishti, should be started from the R??i, which is nearest. In this connection readers may refer to R??i Drishtikathan Adhyaya, Ch. 8, Verse 9 and the table after that. Lagnadi R??i Dasha 188-189. In this system there are Dashas of all the 12 R??is, including Lagn, in every Nakshatr. Consequently the Bhayat at birth may be multiplied by 12 and then the product should be divided by Bhabhog.The R??i, degree etc. so available may be added to the longitude of Lagn. From the R??i, becoming available by doing so, will start the Dashas of the 12 R??is. (If that R??i is odd, the counting will be onwards. It will be in the reverse order, if the R??i is even) 190. For finding the balance of Dasha at birth, multiply the expired degree etc. by the Dasha years of the first Dasha R??i and divide it by 30. The years etc. so arrived at may be deducted from the Dasha years. The result will indicate the balance of Dasha at birth in years, months etc. Panch Swar Dasha 191-194. Beginning fromAkaradhi 5 Swaras (a, i, u, e, o), write underneath them the Varnas in 6 lines. Leave out the letters ‘?a’, ‘ña’ and ‘?a’, because they are not used in names. If they are found in any name, ‘ga’ may be substituted for ‘?a’, ‘ja’ for ‘ña’and ‘da’ for ‘?a’ for working out the Dashas and making predictions. In this manner the Swar, under which the firstVarna of the name of the native is found, will determine the order of the Dashas of the five Swaras. Dashas are of 12 years for all the five Swaras. In the Dasha of every Swar there will be Antar Dashas of all the five Swaras in the same order. Yogini 195-199. Maharishi Parashar said. O Brahmin! I have already given you the description of Panch Swar Dasha. Now I will acquaint you with the Yogini Dasha, as described by Lord Mahadeva. There are 8 Yoginis, namely Mangal, Pingal, Dhanya, Bhramari, Bhadrika, Ulka, Siddha and Sankat. Candr, S?rya, Guru, Mangal, Budh, ?ani, ?ukr and Rahu are born from them. Add 3 to the Janm Nakshatr and divide it by 8. The remainder will indicate the Yogini Dasha of Mangal, etc. The Dashas are of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 years. The balance of Dasha at birth should be worked out from the Bhayat and Bhabhog etc., as already explained earlier. Pind, A?? and Nisarg 201-202. The Pind, A?? and Nisarg Dasha will be the same, as Pindayu, A??ayu and Nisargayu, the method of determination of which has already been explained previously. The order of Dashas will be, as follows. The first will be of Lagn, S?rya, or Candr, whoever is stronger. The subsequent Dashas will be of Grahas in Kendr to them, then of Grahas in Panaphara Bhavas and lastly in Apoklima Bhavas. The Dashas and Antar Dashas of Lagn and the seven Grahas will also be in the same order. 203. The effects of these Dashas will be in accordance with AshtakVarg Bal, which subject will be dealt with later. These Dashas are also calledAshtakVarg Dashas. Sandhya 204. Sandhya is the Dvadash???Ayurdaya of the ParamAyurdaya (maximum possible life-span). In Sandhya Dasha the Dasha of all the R??is from Lagn onwards is of 1/12 the years of ParamAyurdaya. Pachak Dasha in Sandhya Dasha 205-206. By multiplying the Dasha years of Sandhya Dasha by 6 and dividing the product by 31, the years, months etc. so arrived at may be put in one apartment of a Table. Thereafter half of these years, months etc. may be written in the next three apartments. The remaining 8 apartments may be filled in by one third of the aforesaid years, months etc. In this manner Pachak Dasha in Sandhya Dasha of every Bhava can be worked out and predictions may be made from it. Tar 207-209. O Brahmin! Some sages have given consideration to Tar Dasha, which is like Vimshottari. In this Dasha Janm, Sampat etc. in their order replace S?rya, Candr etc., placed in Kendras. This Dasha is applied in those cases only, where there are Grahas in Kendras. If there are a number of Grahas, the first Dasha will belong to the strongest amongst them. 210. O Brahmin! I have now completed the description of the different kinds of Dashas. I will give the description of theirAntar Dashas (sub-periods) later. Ch. 47. Effects of Dashas 1. Maitreya said. O Maharishi Parashar!You have told me about the different kinds of Dashas. Now be kind enough to enlighten me with the effects of Dashas. 2. Maharishi Parashar replied. O Brahmin!There are two kinds of effects of Dashas: general and distinctive. The natural characteristics of the Grahas cause the general effects and the distinctive effects are realized by their placements etc. 3-4. The effects of the Dashas of the Grahas are in accordance with their strength. The effects of a Grah in the first Dreshkan are realized at the commencement of the Dasha. The Grah in the second Dreshkan makes its effects felt in the middle of the Dasha. The effects of the Grah in the third Dreshkan are experienced at the end of the Dasha. If the Grah is retrograde, these effects would be in the reverse order. The Dasha effects of Rahu and Ketu, who are always retrograde, will always be realized in the reverse order. 5-6. The effects are favourable, if at the commencement of the Dasha the Dasha Lord is in Lagn, in his exaltation, own, or a Shant R??i. The results are unfavourable, if the Dasha Lord is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, in his debilitation, or in an inimical R??i. 7-11. During the Dasha of S?rya there is acquisition of wealth, great felicity and honours from the Government, if at the time of birth S?rya is in his own R??i, in his exaltation R??i, in a Kendr, in Labh, be associated with the Lord of Dharm, or the Lord of Karm and strong in hisVarg.The native will be blessed with a son (children), if S?rya is with the Lord of Putr. The native will acquire elephants and other kinds of wealth, if S?rya is associated with the Lord of Dhan. The native will enjoy comforts of conveyances, if S?rya is associated with the Lord of Bandhu. He attains a high position, like that of Army Chief, by the beneficence of the king and enjoys all kinds of happiness. Thus during the Dasha of a strong (and favourable) S?rya there are acquisitions of clothes, agricultural products, wealth, honours, conveyances etc. 12-15. During the Dasha of S?rya there will be anxieties, loss of wealth, punishment from Government, defamation, opposition by kinsmen, distress to father, (in)auspicious happenings at home, distress to paternal and maternal uncles etc., anxiety and inimical relations with other people for no reason whatsoever, should S?rya be in his R??i of debilitation, be weak in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, or be associated with malefic Grahas, or with the Lord ofAri, Randhr, orVyaya. There will be some favourable effects at times, if in the above situations S?rya receives a Drishti from benefic Grahas. The effects will always be unfavourable, when malefic Grahas give a Drishti to S?rya. 16-22. O Brahmin!After describing the effects of the Dasha of S?rya in brief, I will now come to the effects ofVimshottari Dasha of Candr. During the Dasha of Candr from its commencement to the end there will be opulence and glory, good fortune, gain of wealth, auspicious functions at home, dawn of fortune, attainment of a high position in Government, acquisition of conveyances, clothes, birth of children and acquisition of cattle, should Candr be in her exaltation, in her own R??i, in Kendr, in Labh, Dharm, or Putr, be associated with, or receives a Drishti from benefics, be fully powerful and is associated with the Lord of Karm, Dharm, or Bandhu.There will be extraordinary gains of wealth and luxuries, if such a Candr is in Dhan Bhava. 23-26. Should Candr be waning, or in her debilitation R??i, there will be loss of wealth in her Dasha. If Candr is in Sahaj, there will be happiness off and on. If Candr is associated with malefics, there will be idiocy, mental tension, trouble from employees and mother and loss of wealth. If waning Candr is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, or is associated with malefics, there will be inimical relations with Government, loss of wealth, distress to mother and similar evil effects. If a strong Candr is placed in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya there will be troubles and good times off and on. 27-32. If Mangal is in his exaltation, in his Multrikon, in his own R??i, in Kendr, in Labh, or Dhan Bhava with strength, in a benefic A?? (Nav???) and is associated with a benefic, there will be during his Dasha acquisition of kingdom (attainment of a high administrative, or political position in Government, gain of wealth and land, recognition by Government), gain of wealth from foreign countries and acquisition of conveyances and ornaments. There will also be happiness and good relations with co-borns. If Mangal with strength is placed in a Kendr, or in Sahaj, there will be gain of wealth through valour, victory over enemies, happiness from wife and children.There will, however, be a possibility of some unfavourable effects at the end of the Dasha. 33. If Mangal is in his debilitation R??i, weak, in an inauspicious Bhava, or is associated with, or receives a Drishti from malefics, there will be in his Dasha loss of wealth, distress and similar unfavourable effects. 34-39?. In order to clarify the effects of the Dasha of Rahu I shall first mention the exaltation and debilitation R??is of Rahu and Ketu. The exaltation R??i of Rahu is Vrishabh.The exaltation R??i of Ketu isVrischik. The Multrikonas of Rahu and Ketu are Mithun and Dhanu. The own R??is of Rahu and Ketu are Kumbh and Vrischik. Some sages have expressed the view, that Kanya is the own R??i of Rahu and Meen is the own R??i of Ketu. Should Rahu be in his exaltation R??i etc., there will be during the Dasha of Rahu great happiness from acquisition of wealth, agricultural products etc., acquisition of conveyances with the help of friends and Government, construction of a new house, birth of sons (children), religious inclinations, recognition from Government of foreign countries and gain of wealth, clothes etc. If Rahu be associated with, or receives a Drishti from benefics, be in a benefic R??i and be in Tanu, Bandhu,Yuvati, Karm, Labh, or Sahaj, there will be during his Dasha all kinds of comforts by the beneficence of the Government, acquisition of wealth through a foreign Government, or sovereign and felicity at home. 40-43. If Rahu is in Randhr, orVyaya Bhava, there will be during his Dasha all kinds of troubles and distress. If Rahu is associated with a malefic, or a Marak Grah, or is in his debilitation R??i, there will be loss of position, destruction of his residential house, mental agony, trouble to wife and children and misfortune of getting bad food. There will be loss of wealth at the commencement of the Dasha, some relief and gain of wealth in his own country and distress and anxieties during the last portion of the Dasha. 44. Now I am going to describe the effects of the Dasha of Guru, the great benefic and preceptor of the Gods. 45-48. If Guru is in his exaltation, his own R??i, his Multrikon, in Karm, Putr, or Dharm Bhava, in his own Nav???, or in his exalted Nav???, there will be during his Dasha: acquisition of kingdom, great felicity, recognition by Government, acquisition of conveyances and clothes, devotion to deities and Brahmins, happiness in respect of his wife and children and success in the performance of religious sacrifices (oblations). 49-51. If Guru is in his debilitation R??i, combust, associated with malefics, or in Ari, or Randhr, there will be during his Dasha loss of residential premises, anxiety, distress to children, loss of cattle and pilgrimage. The Dasha will give some unfavourable effects at its commencement only. During the later part of the Dasha there will be good effects, like gain of wealth, awards from and recognition by Government. 52. Now I will describe to you the effects of the Dasha of ?ani, who is considered the vilest and most inferior amongst all the Grahas. 53-56. If ?ani is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or in Multrikon, or friendly R??i, in his own, or exalted Nav??? and in Sahaj, or Labh, there will be during his Dasha recognition by Government, opulence and glory, name and fame, success in the educational sphere, acquisition of conveyances and ornaments etc., gain of wealth, favours from Government, attainment of a high position, like Commander of an Army, acquisition of a kingdom, benevolence of goddess Lakshmi, gain of property and birth of children. 57-60. If ?ani is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, in his debilitation R??i, or combust, there will be during his Dasha ill effects from poison, injury from weapons, separation from father, distress to wife and children, disaster, as a result of displeasure of Government, imprisonment etc. If ?ani receives a Drishti from, or is associated with a benefic, is placed in a Kendr, or in a Trikon, in Dhanu, or in Meen, there will be acquisition of a kingdom, conveyances and clothes. 61. Now I am going to describe the effects of the Dasha of Budh, who is called a Kumar (in his teens) amongst all the Grahas. 62-65. If Budh is in his exaltation, in his own, in a friendly R??i, or in Labh, Putr, or Dharm, there will be during his Dasha acquisition of wealth, gain of reputation, improvement in knowledge, benevolence of Government, auspicious functions, happiness from wife and children, good health, availability of sweetish preparations, profits in business etc. If Budh receives a Drishti from a benefic, is in Dharm, or is the Lord of Karm, the aforesaid beneficial results will be experienced in full and there will be great felicity all-round. 66-70. If Budh is associated with a malefic, there will be during his Dasha punishment by Government, inimical relations with kinsmen, journey to a foreign country, dependence on others and the possibility of urinary troubles. If Budh is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, there will be loss of wealth, due to indulgence in lascivious activities, possibility of suffering from rheumatism and jaundice, danger of thefts and malevolence of Government, loss of land and cattle etc. At the commencement of the Dasha of Budh, there will be gains of wealth, betterment in the educational sphere, birth of children and happiness. In the middle of the Dasha, there will be recognition from Government. The last part of the Dasha will be distressful. 71. Now I will tell you about the Dasha of Ketu, who is a headless trunk (Kabandha) amongst all the Grahas. 72-77. If Ketu is in a Kendr, aTrikon, or in Labh, in a benefic R??i, in his exaltation, or in his own R??i, there will be during his Dasha cordial relations with the king, desired headship of a country, or village, comforts of conveyances, happiness from children, gain from foreign countries, happiness from wife and acquisition of cattle. If Ketu is in Sahaj, Ari, or Labh, there will be in his Dasha acquisition of a kingdom, good relations with friends and opportunities for the acquisition of elephants.At the commencement of the Ketu Dasha there will be RajYog. During the middle portion of the Dasha there will be possibilities of fearfulness and in the last part there will be sufferings from ailments and journeys to distant places. If Ketu is in Dhan, Randhr, orVyaya, or receives a Drishti from a malefic, there will be imprisonment, destruction of kinsmen and residential premises and anxieties, company of menials and diseases. 78. Now I will describe the effects of the Dasha of ?ukr, who is the incarnate of intoxication, ecstasy, delight and pride amongst all the Grahas. 79-82. If ?ukr is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or in a Kendr, or a Trikon, there will be during his Dasha acquisition of fancy clothes, ornaments, conveyances, cattle and land etc., availability of sweet preparations every day, recognition from the sovereign, luxurious functions of songs and dances etc. by the benevolence of Goddess Lakshmi. If ?ukr is in his Multrikon, during his Dasha there will definitely be acquisition of a kingdom, acquisition of a house, birth of children and grandchildren, celebration of marriage in the family, attainment of a high position, like the Commander of an Army, visits of friends, recovery of lost wealth, property, or kingdom. 83-84?. If ?ukr is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, there will be during his Dasha inimical relations with kinsmen, distress to wife, losses in business, destruction of cattle and separation from relations. 85-87. If ?ukr is in Bandhu, as Lord of Dharm, or Karm, there will be during his Dasha attainment of rulership of a country, or village, performance of pious deeds, like building of reservoirs and temples and giving grains etc. in charity, availability of sweet preparations every day, vigor in work, name and fame and happiness from wife and children. 88-89. Similar are the effects of ?ukr in his sub-periods. If ?ukr is Lord of Dhan, or Yuvati, there will be during his Dasha physical pains and troubles. To get alleviation from those troubles the native should perform Shatarudriya, or Mrityunjaya Japa in the prescribed manner and give in charity a cow, or female buffalo. Ch. 48. Distinctive Effects of the Nakshatr Dasha, or of the Dashas of the Lords (Vimshottari) of various Bhavas 1. If the Lord of Karm is placed in an auspicious Bhava in his exaltation R??i etc., his Dasha effects will be favourable. The effects will be adverse, if the Lord of Karm is in his debilitation R??i and occupies an inauspicious Bhava. This proves, that an inauspicious Grah in his exaltation R??i etc. will not produce unfavourable results, if placed in an auspicious Bhava and a benefic, being in his debilitation R??i and being placed in an inauspicious Bhava, will produce adverse effects. Now I will describe the effects of the Dasha of the Lords of various Bhavas, who are related to each other. 2-4. There will be physical well-being in the Dasha of the Lord of Lagn, distress and possibility of death in the Dasha of the Lord of Dhan, unfavourable effects in the Dasha of the Lord of Sahaj, acquisition of house and land in the Dasha of the Lord of Bandhu, progress in educational sphere and happiness from the children in the Dasha of the Lord of Putr and danger from enemies and ill health in the Dasha of the Lord ofAri. 5-8. There will be distress to wife and the possibility of the death of the native in the Dasha of the Lord ofYuvati, the possibility of death and financial losses in the Dasha of the Lord of Randhr, improvement in the educational sphere, religious-mindedness and unexpected gains of wealth in the Dasha of the Lord of Dharm, recognition from and awards by the Government in the Dasha of the Lord of Karm, obstacles in gains of wealth and the possibility of diseases in the Dasha of the Lord of Labh and distress and danger from diseases in the Dasha of the Lord ofVyaya. A Grah, placed in an auspicious Bhava, likeTrikon etc., at the commencement of the Dasha, produces favourable results in his Dasha. The Grah, placed in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya at that time, yields only adverse results during his Dasha. It is therefore essential, that the placement of a Grah at the time of birth and at the commencement of the Dasha should both be taken into account for the assessment of the Dasha effects. 14-17?. The Dasha ofAri’s, Randhr’s, orVyaya’s Lord also becomes favourable, if they get associated with the Lord of a Trikon. If the Lord of a Kendr is in a Trikon, or the Lord of aTrikon is in a Kendr, the Dasha of the Grah, yuti with either of them, becomes favourable. The Dasha of a Grah, receiving a Drishti from the Lord of a Kendr, or Trikon is also favourable. If Dharm’s Lord is in Lagn and Lagn’s Lord is in Dharm, the Dashas of both of them will produce extremely beneficial results. There will be acquisition of a kingdom in the Dashas of Lagn’s Lord and Karm’s Lord, if Karm’s Lord is in Lagn and Lagn’s Lord is in Karm. 18-20. The Dasha of Sahaj’s, Ari’s and Labh’s Lord, of the Grahas, placed in Sahaj, Ari and Labh and of the Grahas, yuti with the above, will prove unfavourable. The Dasha of the Grahas, associated with the Lords of Marak Bhavas, namely Dhan and Yuvati, in Dhan, orYuvati and the Dashas of the Grahas, placed in Randhr, will produce unfavourable effects. Thus the Dashas should be considered favourable, after taking into account the placement of a Grah and his relationship of one Grah with the other. (Rahu and Ketu give favourable results in Sahaj, Ari and Labh). Ch. 49. Effects of the Kaal Chakr 1-5. Maharishi Parashar said. O Brahmin! I am now going to describe to you the effects of the Kaal Chakr Dasha. During the Dasha of the R??i, owned, or occupied by S?rya, there will be ill health, due to the blood, or bile troubles; … Candr, there will be gain of wealth and clothes, name and fame and birth of children; … Mangal, there will be bilious fever, gout and wounds; … Budh, there will be acquisition of wealth and birth of children; … Guru, there will be increase in the number of children, acquisition of wealth and enjoyment; … ?ukr, there will be acquisition of learning, marriage and gain of wealth; … occupied by ?ani, there will be all kinds of adverse happenings. The Effects of the Dashas on the Basis of the Nav??? of each R??i 6-7. In the Kaal Chakr Dasha of Mesh in Mesh Nav??? there will be distress, due to troubles, caused by the pollution of blood. In the Dasha of Mesh in the Nav??? of Vrishabh there will be increase in wealth and agricultural product. In the Nav??? of Mithun there will be advancement of knowledge. In the Nav??? of Kark there will be acquisition of wealth, in the Simh Nav??? danger from enemies, in the Kanya distress to wife, in the Tula kingship, in the Vrischik death and in the Dhanu acquisition of wealth. Such will be the effects of the 9 Padas of Mesh. In assessing the net effects the nature of the Grah, occupying the R??i, should also be taken into account. 8-10. In the Dasha of Makar Nav??? in Vrishabh there will be tendency to perform undesirable deeds along with more adverse effects. In the Kumbh Nav??? there will be profits in business, in the Meen success in all ventures, in the Dasha ofVrischik Nav??? danger from fire, in the Dasha ofTula Nav??? recognition from Government and reverence from all, in the Dasha of Kanya Nav??? danger from enemies, in the Dasha of Kark Nav??? distress to wife, in the Dasha of Simh Nav??? diseases of eyes and in the Dasha of Mithun Nav??? obstacles in earning livelihood. Such will be the effects of the 9 Nav???as ofVrishabh. Similar interpretation should be made of further verses on this subject. 11-12. In Mithun in the Dasha of the Vrishabh A?? there will be acquisition of wealth, in the Dasha of MeshA?? attacks of fever, in the Dasha of Meen A?? affectionate relations with maternal uncle, in the Dasha of Kumbh A?? increase in the number of enemies, in the Dasha of MakarA?? danger from thieves, in the Dasha of Dhanu A?? increase in the stock of weapons, in the Dasha ofVrishabhA?? injury by some weapon and in the Dasha of MithunA?? enjoyment. 13-15. In Kark in the Dasha of Kark A?? there will be distress, … Simh displeasure of the sovereign, … Kanya reverence from kinsmen, … Tula beneficence, … Vrischik creation of obstacles by father, … Dhanu increase of learning and wealth, … Makar danger from water, … Kumbh increase in the production of agricultural products and in the Dasha of the Meen A?? acquisition of more wealth and enjoyment. 16-17. In Simh in the Dasha of the Nav??? ofVrischik there will be distress and disputes, … Tula extraordinary gains, … Kanya gains of wealth, … Kark danger from wild animals, … Simh birth of a son, … Mithun increase of enemies, … Vrishabh gains from sale of cattle, … Mesh danger from animals and in the Dasha of MeenA?? journeys to distant places. 18-19. In Kanya in the Dasha of KumbhA?? there will be acquisition of wealth, … Makar financial gains, … Dhanu mingling with kinsmen, … Mesh happiness from mother, … Vrishabh birth of children, … Mithun increase in enemies, … Kark love with some woman, … Simh aggravation of diseases and in the Dasha of Kanya A?? birth of children. 20-22. In Tula in the Dasha ofTula A?? there will be financial gains, … Vrischik good relations with kinsmen, … Dhanu happiness from father, … Makar disputes with mother, … Kumbh birth of a son and financial gains, … Meen entanglement with enemies, … Vrischik disputes with women, … Tula danger from water and in Dasha of Kanya A?? more financial gains. 23-24?. In Vrischik in the Dasha of Kark A?? there will be financial gains, … Simh opposition to the king, … Mithun acquisition of land, … Vrishabh financial gains, … Mesh danger from reptiles, … Meen danger from water, … Kumbh profits in business, … Makar profits in business, … Makar possibility of suffering from diseases and in the Dasha of DhanuA?? financial gains. 25-27. In Dhanu in the Dasha of MeshA?? there will be financial gains, … Vrishabh acquisition of more land, … Mithun success in ventures, … Kark success all round, … Simh increase in the accumulated wealth, … Kanya disputes, … Tula financial gains, … Vrischik affliction with diseases, … Dhanu happiness from children. 28-29. In Makar in the Dasha of MakarA?? there will be happiness from children, … Kumbh gain of agricultural products, … Meen well being, … Vrischik danger from poison, … Tula financial gains, … Kanya increase in enemies, … Kark acquisition of property, … Simh danger from wild animals and in the Dasha of Mithun A?? danger of falling from a tree. 30-32. In Kumbh in the Dasha ofVrishabhA?? there will be financial gains, … Mesh diseases of the eyes, … Meen journeys to distant places, … Kumbh increase in wealth, … Makar success in all kinds of ventures, … Dhanu more enemies, … Mesh loss of happiness and enjoyment, … Vrishabh death, … Mithun well being. 33-34?. In the Meen in the Dasha of Kark A?? there will be increase in wealth, … Simh recognition by Government, … Kanya financial gains, … Tula gains from all sources, … Vrischik fever, … Dhanu more enemies, … Makar conjugal disputes, … Kumbh danger from water and in the Dasha of Meen A?? good fortune all-round. In this manner on the Kaal Chakr, prepared on the basis of Pad of the Janm Nakshatr, the Dashas of the Nav??? R??is and their duration can be assessed and prediction can be made for the whole life of the native. Appropriate remedial measures (recitation of Mantras, oblations etc.) should be taken to alleviate the adverse effects, caused by malefic Dashas. 35-37. The effects of Dasha in RajYog etc. have already been described in Vol. I of this book. The same should be applied in a judicious manner in the Kaal Chakr. These are in brief effects of Kaal Chakr Dasha. Ch. 50. Effects of the Char etc. Dashas 1-3. Maharishi Parashar said. O Brahmin! I have already described the Char etc. Dashas. Now I am going to tell you the effects of these Dashas. The effects of the Dashas of the R??is should be judged from the strength of the Lords of R??is and whether they are benefics, or malefics. If the Lord of a R??i possesses full strength, the effects of the Dasha of the R??i will be realized in full. The effects of the Dasha will be of medium nature, if the strength is medium. If the Lord of R??i possesses little strength, the effects will be experienced accordingly. 4-10. If there are malefics in the 8th, the 5th and the 9th from a Dasha R??i, the effects of the Dasha of that R??i will be distressful. If there are malefics in the 3rd and the 6th from a Dasha R??i, the effects of the Dasha will be victory over enemies and happiness. If there are benefics in the 3rd and the 6th from the Dasha R??i, there will be defeat in its Dasha. If there are benefics, or malefics in the 11th from the Dasha R??i, there will be conquests and happiness in the Dasha. If the Dasha R??i is occupied by, or is owned by a benefic, the effects of its Dasha will be beneficial. If a Dasha R??i, owned by a benefic, is occupied by a malefic, favourable effects will be experienced in the first part of the Dasha and they will be adverse in the latter part. If a Dasha R??i, owned by a malefic is occupied by a benefic, the effects of the Dasha will be the same. A Dasha R??i, owned and occupied by a malefic will always yield unfavourable results. The reverse will be the case in the case of the Dasha R??i, owned and occupied by a benefic. If a Dasha R??i, owned by a benefic, is occupied by both benefic and malefic Grahas, the effects of Dasha will be adverse in its first part and favourable in the latter part. 11-17. The assessment of the effects of the Dasha of the Dasha R??i should be made after taking into account the disposition of the Grahas in the R??i at birth and the disposition of Grahas during the Dasha. If the Dasha R??i is well disposed both at the time of birth and during its Dasha, the beneficial results will be realized in full. If it is ill-disposed during the Dasha, the effects will be of mixed nature. If the Dasha R??i is ill-disposed both at the time of birth and during its Dasha, only evil effects will be experienced. 18-19. The effects of the Dasha will be favourable, if it is occupied by a benefic and there is also a benefic in the R??i previous to it. If the R??i is occupied by a malefic, the effects will be of adverse nature. If there are benefics in Putr and Dharm, the effects of its Dasha will be favourable.The reverse will be the case, if Putr and Dharm are occupied by malefics. 20-21. Kumbh, Vrishabh, Simh andVrischik are Badhak Bhavas for the four Movable R??is: Mesh, Kark, Tula and Makar. In other words the 11th R??i to a Movable R??i is its Badhak Bhava. If there is a malefic in the Bhava, occupied by its Lord, or in Badhak Bhava of that R??i, there will be occasions of great sorrow, imprisonment and diseases during the Dasha. 22. The Dasha of a R??i will be favourable, if it is occupied by its own Lord, or an exalted Grah. The Dasha of a R??i, not occupied by any Grah, will be adverse. 23-25. There will be great danger, imprisonment during a journey, displeasure of Government and danger from enemies in the Dasha and Antar Dasha of the R??i, from which its Badhak Bhava,Vyaya, Ari and Randhr are occupied by Rahu. There will be loss, due to the displeasure of the king and danger therefrom in the Antar Dasha of the R??i, that is occupied by S?rya, Mangal, Rahu and ?ani. There will be the possibility of death, if the 5th and the 9th from the Antar Dasha R??i are occupied by a debilitated, or malefic Grah. 26-28. There will be enjoyment, acquisition of chiefship of a town, or village, birth of a son, financial gains, well-being, dawn of fortune, attainment of the position of a Commander of an Army and progress all-round, if there is an exalted Grah in the Trikon from the Antar Dasha R??i. There will be in his Dasha financial gains, well-being and birth of a son, if the Grah, who is the Lord of the Dasha, happens to be in a benefic R??i and receives a Drishti from Guru. 29-32. Vrishabh,Tula, Makar, Kumbh and Mithun are the inimical R??is of S?rya. The inimical R??is of Candr and other Grahas may be reckoned similarly. If a Grah is in an inimical R??i, his Dasha will be full of adversities. The effects of the Dasha of R??is and Grahas should be judged after taking into account the above rules. 33-34. The Dashas of that Grah will be favourable, who is RajYog Karak, who is disposed between two benefics (that is there are benefics in the 2nd and the 12th Bhavas to that Grah) and who has benefics in the 2nd, 3rd and 4th Bhavas from him. A malefic Grah becomes favourable, if he is disposed between benefics. 35-36. The whole of the Dasha of a Grah, who is related to a friendly and benefic Grah at the commencement and the end of the Dasha, will be favourable. In an unfavourable Dasha the Antar Dasha of a benefic (Grah, or R??i) becomes favourable.The Dasha of a Grah, or R??i, who has benefics in the 5th, or the 9th from it, is also favourable. In this manner the effects of the Dasha should be judged, after taking into account the dispositions of the Grah, or R??i at the commencement and at the end of the Dasha. 37-39. The Dasha of the Grahas and R??is, who have benefics in the Trikon from them is favourable. If the Dasha of a benefic R??i commences in a benefic R??i, it will be very favourable. If an evil Dasha commences in a benefic R??i, it is also favourable. Therefore the commencement of a Dasha should always be kept in view in assessing the results of the Dasha.There will be loss of fortune, if at the commencement of the Dasha there is a malefic R??i, or, if the Lord of the Dasha R??i is in debilitation. 40-41. There will be loss of fortune, wealth and agricultural products and infliction with disease during the Dasha of the R??i, occupied by a debilitated Grah, or, if there is a debilitated Grah in the 5th from it, or in the 9th from it, or whose Lord is debilitated, or related to a debilitated Grah. 42. Four R??is from Kumbh and four R??is fromVrischik belong to Rahu and Ketu, respectively. If Rahu and Ketu are in any one of the aforesaid R??is, the Dasha will be productive of beneficial results. 43-45. If a Grah, whose Dasha is otherwise considered favourable, is placed in a Marak Bhava, or, if the R??i, in which his Dasha comes to an end, receives a Drishti from ?ukr, or Candr, there will be in his Dasha displeasure of government and loss of wealth. 46-47. There will be loss of everything, imprisonment, death, exile from the country and great distress at the end of the Dasha of Rahu.The above effects will definitely be realized, if there are malefics in the 5th and the 9th from Rahu. Beneficial and adverse effects should be predicted in this manner. 48-50. The same would be the effects in the Dasha of the R??i, occupied by malefics, like Rahu etc.The association of a Marak Grah with the R??i at the time of commencement of its Dasha is not productive of good effects. If such a Grah is Rahu, there will be imprisonment, or loss of wealth. 51-52. The natural characteristics of the Bhava, occupied by Rahu, are harmed at the commencement of the Dasha. If such a Bhava is Dhan, there will be loss of wealth. If Candr and ?ukr are in Vyaya, there will be losses, due to the displeasure of government. If Mangal and Ketu are so disposed, there will be death, or danger from fire. There will be acquisition of a kingdom, if ?ukr and Candr are in Dhan at the commencement of the Dasha.This means, that the effects of the Bhava, in which Candr and ?ukr are placed at the commencement and end of a Dasha, are strengthened.Thus their disposition in Ari, Randhr and Vyaya will produce only adverse effects. 53-55. Similarly the sages have described the effects of the Bhava with Argal. If there is an auspiciousArgal causing benefic, or malefic Grah of a R??i and Lagn receives a Drishti from him, that R??i will prevail. Here Lagn is the secondary condition. If the Grah, causing uninterruptedArgal, gives a Drishti to a R??i, that R??i will prevail. In other words good effects will be derived in the Dasha of that R??i. The Dasha of the R??i, which does not receive a Drishti from an auspiciousArgal, or the Dasha of a R??i with VipreetArgal will not be favourable.The Dasha of that R??i, which receives a Drishti from a benefic, will be favourable. 56-59. Financial gains will be derived in the Dasha of the R??i, which is occupied by its benefic Lord, or by an exalted Grah, who receives a Drishti from him. There will be loss of wealth, if such a Grah is in the 12th Bhava to the R??i (or Bhava). There will be destruction of all good effects, distress to children and father and mental agony in the Dasha of the R??i, if there are malefics in the 5th and the 9th from the R??i. Evil effects will be experienced in the Dasha of the R??i, which is occupied by Randhr’s Lord, Vyaya’s Lord, S?rya, Mangal, or ?ani. 60-63. The Dasha of the R??i will cause distress to children, exile to a foreign country and continuous disturbances in life, if Rahu and Ketu are in the Trikon to the R??i. There will be danger from enemies, from the king and disease in the Dasha of the R??i, which is so posited, that the 6th and the 8th from it are occupied by malefic, debilitated, or combust Grahas. There will be destruction of house, land and agricultural fields, if there is a malefic, or debilitated Grah in the 4th from the R??i. There will be loss of house, due to negligence, if such a Grah is Mangal. There will be heart pain and danger from government, if the Grah is ?ani and there will be losses all round and danger from poison and thieves, if the Grah is Rahu. 64-66?. There will be pilgrimage to holy places in the Dasha of the R??i, who has Rahu in the 10th to it. There will be gain of earnings, religious rites, gain of wealth, renown for good deeds and success in efforts and ventures in the Dasha of the R??i, which is so posited, that the 10th, the 11th and the 9th from it are occupied by benefics. There will be birth of children, happiness from wife and recognition by the Government in the Dasha of the R??i, from which the 5th, the 7th and the 9th are occupied by benefic, or exalted Grahas. During the Dasha of the Bhavas (R??is), occupied by Putr’s, Labh’s, Karm’s, Bandhu’s, Dharm’s and Lagn’s Lord, there will be growth of these Bhavas. The good effects will be in proportion to the strength of the Bhavas and the Grahas, occupying them. 67-70. In the Dasha of a R??i (Bhava) there will be well-being, increase in opulence and glory and devotion to deities and Brahmins, if it is occupied by Guru, ?ukr, or the Lord of aTrikon. There will be acquisition of more conveyances and cattle etc. in the Dasha of the R??i (Bhava), which is so posited, that the 4th from it is occupied by an exalted Grah, or Lord of a Trikon. Candr there will give things, like grains, Gh? etc. Full Candr will favour with a treasure and jewels etc. ?ukr there, will provide enjoyment from music etc. 71-72. There will be enjoyment of the palanquin-like conveyance in the Dasha of the R??i (Bhava), from which the 4th is occupied by Guru. There will be success in all ventures, great opulence and glory, acquisition of a kingdom during the Dasha of a R??i (Bhava), which has theYog of the Lord of Lagn, Dharm’s Lord, Karm’s Lord, an exalted Grah, or benefics. The effects of the Dashas of various Bhavas should be judged in this manner. 73-77. The effects of the Dashas of each R??i, or Grah (Nakshatr Dasha) depend on their 18 different kinds of conditions. They are deep exaltation, exaltation, dispositions on their either side, Multrikon, own, Adhimitr,Tatkalik Mitra’s, neutral, enemy’s, Adhisatru’s R??i, deep debilitation, debilitated, or enemy’sVarg, own Varg, disposition in a Kendr, disposition in a Trikon, defeated in war between Grahas, deep combustion. 78-83?. Acquisition of kingdom, enjoyment and acquisition of more property are the effects of the whole Dasha of the Grah, who is in deep exaltation and is fully equipped with all the six kinds of strength, great opulence and glory with some possibility of affliction with disease are the effects of the Grah, placed in his R??i of exaltation. The Dasha of a Grah in deep debilitation is called Rikt. Diseases, loss of wealth and danger of death are the effects of the Dasha of such a Grah. The Dasha of the Grah, who is in a condition in between deep exaltation and deep debilitation is known, asAvrohini (descending). The Dasha of the Grah in exaltation, or in a friend’s R??i is called Madhya (of middle order). This Dasha also yields moderately good effects. The Dasha of a Grah, placed in a condition in between deep debilitation and deep exaltation, is called Rohini (ascending). The Dasha of a Grah, placed in between the debilitated and enemy Nav??? is calledAdham (evil). Dangers of various kinds, distress and sorrows are the results of the Dasha of such a Grah. These Dashas give results, according to their nomenclature. 84-87. The Dashas of other Grahas become auspicious and augment the fortune, if the Lord of Dharm and Guru are in any way related with Yog, Kendr, or the Bhava concerned etc. The Grah with Yog of good fortune at birth produces good effects, when he is free from retrogression and becomes direct. The weakness, inabilities and Yogas of other Grahas should also be taken into account in judging their effects.All those Dashas give full, medium and little effects in accordance with the disposition of the Grahas in the Kendr, Panaphara and Apoklima. 88-89?. The Grahas in Shirshodaya, Ubhayodaya and Prishthodaya R??is, yield their results, respectively, at the commencement, in the middle and at the end of the Dasha. All the Grahas yield auspicious results in the Antar Dasha of Naisargik (natural, constant) and Tatkalik (according to position) friends. The results will be adverse in the Antar Dasha of inimical Grahas. Antar Dashas of R??is 90-96. There are Antar Dashas of the 12 R??is, commencing from the R??i, in which the Lord of the Dasha is placed. There will be auspicious results, like acquisition of kingdom in theAntar Dasha of a R??i, which is occupied by its own Lord, or a friendly Grah.There will be inauspicious results, like loss of wealth, disputes, danger from diseases etc. in the Antar Dasha of the R??i, which may be Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, or is occupied by a malefic, debilitated Grah, or a Grah, placed in an inimical R??i. The R??i, which contained more auspicious marks in the Ashtak Varg will yield benefic effects in itsAntar Dasha. Adverse will be the effects of the Antar Dasha of the R??i, which contains more inauspicious marks. For assessing the results the R??i, from which the Dasha commences, should be treated, as Lagn and the Bhavas thereafter should be assumed to have the characteristics, as if they are so from Lagn. Thus the 2nd Bhava from that R??i will be the Bhava of the wealth, the 3rd of co-borns and so on. There will be gains, or losses of Dhatus etc., assigned to the R??is and the Grahas, in the Antar Dasha of the R??is concerned. In judging the effects of the Antar Dashas of the Grahas their benefic and malefic nature, relations with the malefic, or benefic, Drishtis on them and their disposition in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya etc. should all be kept in view. 97. The results of the Antar Dasha’s Pratyantar Dashas of the R??is should be assessed in the manner, explained in this chapter. Ch. 51. Working out ofAntar Dashas of Grahas and R??is in Vimshottari etc. Dasha systems 1. For finding out the span of the Antar Dasha of a Grah in the Dasha of the same, or another Grah multiply the Dasha years of the former with the Dasha years of the latter and divide the product by the total Dasha years of all the Grahas. For finding out the span of the Pratyantar Dasha of the same, or any other Grah in the Antar Dasha of another Grah multiply the years etc. of the Antar Dasha with the Dasha years of the other Grah and divide the product by the total Dasha years of all the Grahas. The figure so available in months etc. will represent the Pratyantar Dasha of the former. 2. In every Dasha the firstAntar Dasha belongs to the Lord of the Dasha.Then the furtherAntar Dashas belong to the other 8 Grahas in the same order, as followed for the Dashas. The same applies to Pratyantar Dasha. The Antar Dashas of Char Grahas in Char etc. Dasha 3-4. TheAntar Dashas of the Charadi Kendradi Dasha of the Grahas are worked out by dividing the Dasha years by 9. The first Dasha will invariably be of the Lord of the Dasha.Thereafter there will be Antar Dashas of Grahas, placed in Kendras, Panapharas and Apoklimas, respectively, according to their strength. Antar Dashas of R??is 1. The Antar Dashas of R??is is worked out by dividing the Dasha years by 12. Pratyantar Dashas of the Antar Dashas are also calculated in the same manner. 2. The Antar Dashas will start from the Dasha R??i, or from the R??i 7th therefrom, whichever is stronger. The Antar Dashas are in the onwards order, if the Dasha R??i is odd and in the reverse order, if it is even. 7-12. O Brahmin! Now I will acquaint you with the special characteristics of the order of the Antar Dashas of the R??is. If the Dasha R??i is a Movable one, the Antar Dashas of the 12 R??is are in the onwards, or reverse order. If the Dasha Asraya R??i is a Fixed one, the Antar Dashas will start from it and thereafter there will be an Antar Dasha of every sixth R??i. If the Dasha Ashraya R??i is a Dual one, the firstAntar Dasha will belong to it. Thereafter there will be Antar Dashas of R??is in Kendr to it, R??is in Kendr to the 5th from it and R??is in Kendr to the 9th from it. In the case of all kinds of R??is, namely Movable, Fixed, or Dual, the order will be onwards, if the Dasha Asraya R??i is an odd one and in the reverse order, if it is an even one. The so called Dasha Asraya R??i is known, as Pak R??i. In the first order R??i, which is Pak R??i, is also called Bhog R??i. Later, if the Dasha Prad R??i is even, then the Bhog R??i will be that, which is at the same R??i distance, as the DashaAsraya R??i is from the Dasha Prad R??i. For the Char, Sthir and Trikon Dasha, the Pak and Bhog should be determined in this manner. If Pak and Bhog R??is are associated with malefics, there will be pain in the body and mental agony. There will be enjoyment, if they are associated with benefics. In the Kaal Chakr Dasha, like the Vimshottari Dasha system, the span of Dasha should be multiplied by the span of the Dasha of the R??i, whose Antar Dasha is required and the product should be divided by the total Dasha years of (all) the R??i(s). The years, months etc. as arrived at will represent theAntar Dasha of the R??i concerned. 13-16. Now I will tell you the method of working out the Antar Dashas in the Pinda, A?? and Nisarg Dashas. The Lord of Dasha is Dasha Pachak of full part, the Grah, associated with, is Pachak of ? part, the Grah in Trikon from him is Pachak of l/3 part and the Grah in the 4th and 8th from him are Pachak of ? part, the Grah in the 7th from him is Pachak of l/7 part of the Dasha. No Grah in any other Bhava isAntar Dash Pachak. In this manner there are Antar Dasha Pachakas in the above-mentioned Bhavas from the various Bhavas, including Lagn. In any of such Bhavas, if there are more than one Grah, then the one, who is the strongest amongst them will be the Pachak. Take the fractions and reduce them in equivalent fractions with a common denominator. Add up the aliquot parts of the Dasha, representative of the various numerators, leaving out the denominators. The Antar Dashas will be arrived at, when the various aliquots are converted into years, months etc. within the main Dasha and divided by the above sum. (The calculations, given above, are not the literal translation of the text in the verses concerned, but their actual meaning and sense.This has been got confirmed by checking up with similar information, given in Kalyana Varma’s Saravali and Varamihir’s Brihat Jatak) Ch. 52. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of S?rya (Vimshottari) 1-3. Good effects, like acquisition of wealth and grains etc., are derived in the Antar Dasha of S?rya in his own Dasha, if S?rya is exalted, in his own Bhava, in Labh, in a Kendr, or in a Trikon. Adverse results will be experienced, if S?rya is debilitated, or in an inauspicious Bhava, or R??i. Medium effects will be realized, if S?rya is in other houses. If S?rya is the Lord of Dhan, orYuvati, there will be danger of premature death, or death-like sufferings. The remedial measures to be adopted are Mrityunjaya Japa, or the worship of S?rya (by recitation of appropriate Mantras, charity etc.). 4-6. Functions, like marriage etc., gain of wealth and property, acquisition of a house, of land, cattle and conveyances etc. will be the effects of the Antar Dasha of Candr in the Dasha of S?rya, if Candr is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon. There will be marriage of the native, birth of children, beneficence of and favours from kings and fulfillment of all ambitions, if Candr is in his exaltation R??i, or in his own R??i. 7-10. Distress to wife and children, failures in ventures, disputes with others, loss of servants, antagonism with the king and destructions of wealth and grains will be the effects, if Candr is waning, or is associated with malefics. Effects, like danger from water, mental agony, imprisonment, danger from diseases, loss of position, journeys to difficult places, disputes with coparceners, bad food, trouble from thieves etc., displeasure of the king, urinary troubles, pains in the body will be experienced, if Candr is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya. 11-12?. Luxuries, comforts, pleasures, dawn of fortune (Bhagyodaya), increase in the enjoyment from wife and children, acquisition of kingdom, performance of marriage and religious functions, gain of garments, land and conveyance and birth of children and grandchildren will be the auspicious effects, if there are benefics in the 1st, the 9th, or a Kendr from the Lord of the Dasha. 13-14. Unpalatable food, or course food, exile to outside places etc. will be the effects in the Antar Dasha, if Candr is in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if Candr is weak. There will be premature death, if Candr is the Lord of a Marak Bhava.To acquire peace and comfort, the remedial measure is giving in charity of a white cow and a female buffalo (Mahishi). 15-18. Auspicious effects, like acquisition of land, gain of wealth and grains, acquisition of a house etc. will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Mangal in the Dasha of S?rya, if Mangal is in his exaltation R??i, in his own R??i, in a Kendr, or in a Trikon. All-round gains, attainment of the position of a Commander of the Army, destruction of enemies, peace of mind, family comforts and increase in the number of co-borns will be the effects, if Mangal is yuti with the Lagn’s Lord. 19-20. Brutality, mental ailment, imprisonment, loss of kinsmen, disputes with brothers and failure in ventures will result, if Mangal is in the 8th, or in the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, if Mangal is associated with malefics, or, if Mangal is without dignity and strength. 21-22. Destruction of wealth by the displeasure of the king will be the effect, if Mangal is in his debilitation R??i, or be weak. Diseases of the mind and body will result, if Mangal is the Lord of Dhan, orYuvati Bhava. Recovery from ill health, increase in longevity and success in adventures are possible, if remedial measure, like recitation of Vedas, Japa and Vrashotsarg are performed in the prescribed manner. 23-26?. In the Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Dasha of S?rya, if Rahu is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon from Lagn, there will be in the first two months loss of wealth, danger from thieves, snakes, infliction of wounds and distress to wife and children. After 2 months inauspicious effects will disappear and enjoyment and comforts, sound health, satisfaction, favours from the king and government etc. will be the favourable effects, if Rahu is yuti with benefics, or, if Rahu is in the Nav??? of a benefic. Recognition from the king, good fortune, name and fame, some distress to wife and children, birth of a son, happiness in the family etc. will be derived, if Rahu is in an Upachaya from Lagn, if Rahu is associated with a Yog Karak, or is placed auspiciously from the Lord of the Dasha. 27-29. Imprisonment, loss of position, danger from thieves and snakes, inflection of wounds, happiness to wife and children, destruction of cattle, house and agricultural fields, diseases, consumption (Gulma - enlargement of the skin), dysentery etc. will be the results, if Rahu is weak, or is in the 8th, or in the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 30-31. Adverse effects, like premature death and danger from snakes will be derived, if Rahu is in Dhan, orYuvati, or, if Rahu is associated with the Lords of either of these Bhavas. Worship of Goddess Durga, Japa, giving in charity of a black cow, or female buffalo are the remedial measures for alleviation of the above evil effects, or total escape from them. 32-33?. Marriage of the native, favours by the king, gain of wealth and grains, birth of a son, fulfillment of the ambitions by the beneficence of the sovereign and gain of clothes will be the auspicious effects, derived in the Antar Dasha of Guru in the Dasha of S?rya, if Guru is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon to Lagn, in his exaltation R??i, in his own R??i, or in his own Varg. 34-36. Acquisition of a kingdom, comforts of conveyance, like palanquin (motor car in the present times), gain of position etc. will result, if Guru is the Lord of Dharm, or Karm. Better fortune, charities, religious inclinations, worship of deities, devotion to preceptor, fulfillment of ambitions will be the auspicious effects, if Guru is well placed with reference to the Lord of the Dasha. 37-39. Distress to wife and children, pains in the body, displeasure of the king, non-achievement of desired goals, loss of wealth, due to sinful deeds, mental worries etc. will result in hisAntar Dasha, if Guru is in the 6th, or in the 8th from the Lord of the Dasha, or is associated with malefics. Giving in charity gold, a tawny-coloured cow (Kapila Gaya), worship of Isht Lord (Isht Dev) are the remedial measures to obtain alleviation of the evil effects and to achieve good health and happiness. 40-42. Destruction of foes, full enjoyment, some gain of grains, auspicious functions, like marriage etc. at home will be the good effects, derived in the Antar Dasha of ?ani in the Dasha of S?rya, if ?ani is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon from Lagn. Well-being, acquisition of more property, recognition by the king, achievement of renown in the country, gain of wealth from many sources will be the effects, if ?ani is in his exaltation, in his own, in a friendly R??i and, if ?ani is yuti with a friendly Grah. 43-44. Rheumatism, pains, fever, dysentery-like disease, imprisonment, loss in ventures, loss of wealth, quarrels, disputes with coparceners, claimants etc. will be the effects in the Antar Dasha, if ?ani is in the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or is associated with malefics. 45-47. There will be loss of friends at the commencement, good effects during the middle part and distress at the end of the Dasha. In addition to other evil effects there will be separation from parents and wandering, if ?ani be in his R??i of debilitation. If ?ani is the Lord of Dhan, orYuvati, there will be danger of premature death. Giving in charity black cow, buffalo, goat and Mrityunjaya Japa, are the remedial measures for obtaining relief from the evil effects of the Antar Dasha. These measures help to achieve happiness and gain of wealth and property. 48-49?. Acquisition of a kingdom, enthusiasm and vivacity, happiness from wife and children, acquisition of conveyance through the beneficence of the sovereign, gain of clothes, ornaments, pilgrimage to holy places, acquisition of a cow etc. will be the good effects in the Antar Dasha of Budh in the Dasha of S?rya, if Budh is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon from Lagn. 50-51?. Budh becomes very beneficial, if he gets associated with the Lord of Dharm. Reverence from and popularity amongst people, performance of pious deeds and religious rites, devotion to the preceptor and deities, increase in wealth and grains and birth of a son, will be the auspicious effects, if Budh is in Dharm, Putr, or Karm. 52-53?. Marriage, offering of oblations, charity, performance of religious rites, name and fame, becoming famous by assuming another name, good food, becoming happy, like Indra, by acquiring wealth, robes and ornaments will be the effects, if Budh is in an auspicious Bhava, like a Trikon etc. from the Lord of the Dasha. 54-57. Body distress, disturbance of peace of mind, distress to wife and children, will be the evil effects in the Antar Dasha of Budh, if he is in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha (Budh cannot be in the 6th, or the 8th from S?rya). There will be evil effects at the commencement of the Antar Dasha, some good effects in the middle part of the Antar Dasha and the possibility of displeasure of the king and exile to a foreign country at the end of the Dasha. If Budh is the Lord of Dhan, orYuvati, there will be pains in the body and attacks of fever. For relief from the evil effects and to regain good health and happiness the remedial measures are the recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam and giving in charity grains and an idol, made of silver. 58-59. Body pains, mental agony, loss of wealth, danger from the king, quarrels with the kinsmen will be the effects of theAntar Dasha of Ketu in the Dasha of S?rya. If Ketu is associated with the Lord of Lagn, there will be some happiness at the commencement, distress in the middle part and receipt of the news of death at the end of the Antar Dasha. 60-61. Diseases of teethe, or cheeks, urinary troubles, loss of position, loss of friends and wealth, death of father, foreign journey and troubles from enemies will be the results, if Ketu is in the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 62-64. Beneficial effects, like happiness from wife and children, satisfaction, increase of friends, gain of clothes etc. and renown will be derived, if Ketu is in Sahaj, Ari, Karm, or Labh. If Ketu is Lord of Dhan, orYuvati (or is in any of those Bhavas), there will be danger of premature death.The remedial measures for obtaining relief from the evil effects are recitation of Mantras of Goddess Durga (Shat Chandi Path) and giving a goat in charity. 65-68. Marriage and happiness, as desired from wife, gain of property, travels to other places, meeting with Brahmins and the king, acquisition of kingdom, riches, magnanimity and majesty, auspicious functions at the home, availability of sweet preparations, acquisition of pearls and other jewels, clothes, cattle, wealth, grains and conveyances, enthusiasm, good reputation etc. are the auspicious effects of theAntar Dasha of ?ukr in the Dasha of S?rya, if ?ukr is placed in a Kendr, or in aTrikon, or, if ?ukr is in his exaltation R??i, in his own R??i, in his own Varg, or in a friendly R??i. 69-73. Displeasure of the king, mental agony and distress to wife and children will be the effects in the Antar Dasha of ?ukr, if he is in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. The effects of the Antar Dasha would be moderate at its commencement, good during the middle portion and evil effects, like disrepute, loss of position, inimical relations with kinsmen and loss of comforts, will be derived at the end. If ?ukr is the Lord ofYuvati (and Dhan), there will be pains in the body and the possibility of suffering from diseases. There will be premature death, if ?ukr is associated with Ari’s, or Randhr’s Lord. The remedial measures for obtaining relief from the evil effects are Mrityunjaya Japa, Rudra Japa and giving in charity a tawny cow, or female buffalo. Ch. 53. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Candr 1-2?. Acquisition of horses, elephants and clothes, devotion to deities and preceptor, recitation of religious songs in praise of God, acquisition of a kingdom, extreme happiness and enjoyment and name and fame will be the beneficial results in the Antar Dasha of Candr in her own Dasha, if she is placed in her exaltation R??i, her own R??i, in a Kendr, or in a Trikon, or is associated with the Lord of Dharm, or Karm. 3-6. Loss of wealth, loss of position, lethargy, agony, antagonism towards the king and ministers, distress to mother, imprisonment and loss of kinsmen will be the evil effects in herAntar Dasha, if Candr is in her debilitation R??i, if Candr is associated with malefics, or, if Candr is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya. If Candr is the Lord of Dhan, or Yuvati, or is associated with Randhr’s, or with Vyaya’s Lord, there will be pains in the body and danger of premature death. The remedial measures are giving in charity of a tawny-coloured cow, or female buffalo. 7-8?. Advancement of fortune, recognition by the government, gain of clothes and ornaments, success in all efforts, increase in agricultural production and prosperity at home and profits in business will be the favourable effects of the Antar Dasha of Mangal in the Dasha of Candr, if Mangal is in a Kendr, or in aTrikon. Great happiness and enjoyment of comforts will be derived, if Mangal is in his exaltation R??i, or in his own R??i. 9-12. Distress to the body, losses at home and in agricultural production, losses in business dealings, antagonism, or adverse relations with servants (employees) and the king, separation from kinsmen and hot temperament will be the evil effects in the Antar Dasha of Mangal, if he is placed in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya from Lagn, be associated with, or receives a Drishti from malefics in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 13-14. There will be some auspicious results at the commencement of the Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Dasha of Candr, but later there will be danger from the king, thieves and snakes, distress to cattle, loss of kinsmen and friends, loss of reputation and mental agony, if Rahu is placed in a Kendr, or in a Trikon. 15-16. Success in all ventures, gain of conveyances, garments etc. from the king etc. in the South-West direction will be derived, if Rahu in hisAntar Dasha receives a Drishti from benefics, if Rahu is in Sahaj, Ari, Karm, or Labh, or, if Rahu is yuti with a Yog Karak Grah. 17-18. Loss of position, mental agony, distress to wife and children, danger of diseases, danger from the king, scorpions and snakes etc. will happen, if Rahu is weak and is placed in the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 19-21. Pilgrimage to holy places, visits to sacred shrines, beneficence, inclination towards charitable deeds etc. will be the results, if Rahu is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, or in the 3rd, or the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha.There will be body troubles (physical afflictions), if Rahu is in Dhan, or in Yuvati. Rahu Japa and giving a goat in charity are the remedial measures for obtaining relief from the evil effects in the Antar Dasha of Rahu. 22-24?. Acquisition of a kingdom, auspicious celebrations at home, gains of clothes and ornaments, recognition from the king beneficence of the Isht Lord (Isht Devata), gains of wealth, land, conveyances, success in all ventures by the beneficence of the king will be the beneficial effects in theAntar Dasha of Guru in the Dasha of Candr, if Guru is placed in a Kendr, or in a Trikon to Lagn, or, if Guru is in his own, or in his exaltation R??i. 25-28?. Destruction of preceptor (and father etc.) and children, loss of position, mental agony, quarrels, destruction of a house, conveyances and agricultural land will be the evil effects in hisAntar Dasha, if Guru is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, if Guru is combust, in his debilitation R??i, or be associated with malefics. Gains of cattle, grains, clothes and happiness from brothers, acquisition of property, valour, patience, oblations, celebrations, like marriage etc., gain of a kingdom etc. will be the favourable effects, if Guru is in 3rd, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 29-31. Effects, like unpalatable food, journeys to places away from the homeland, will be derived, if Guru is weak and is placed in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from Candr. There will be good effects at the commencement of the Antar Dasha and distress at its end. There will be premature death, if Guru is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Remedial measures for obtaining relief from the above evil effects are recitation of Shiva Sahasranam Japa and giving gold in charity. 32-34. Effects, like birth of a son, friendship, gain of wealth and property, profits in business with the help of Sudras, increase in agricultural production, gains from son, riches and glory by the beneficence of the king, will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of ?ani in the Dasha of Candr, if ?ani is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon from Lagn, or, if ?ani is in his own R??i, in his own Nav???, in his exaltation R??i, if ?ani receives a Drishti from, or is associated with benefics, or, if ?ani is in Labh with strength. 35-35?. Effects, like visits to holy places, bathing in holy rivers etc., the creation of troubles by many people and distress from enemies, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of ?ani, if ?ani is in Ari, Randhr, Vyaya, or Dhan, or, if ?ani is in his debilitation R??i. 36-38. Effects, like enjoyments and gains of wealth some times, while opposition, or quarrels with wife and children at other times, will be realized, if ?ani is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon from the Lord of that Dasha, or is endowed with strength. If ?ani is in Dhan, Yuvati, or Randhr, there will be physical distress. The remedial measures to be adopted for obtaining relief from the evil effects are Mrityunjaya Japa, giving in charity a black cow, or female buffalo. 39-41. Effects, like acquisition of wealth, recognition by the king, gain of clothes etc., discussions on Shastras gain of knowledge from society with learned and holy people, enjoyments, birth of children, satisfaction, profits in business, acquisition of conveyance and ornaments etc. will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of Budh in the Dasha of Candr, if Budh is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon, if Budh is in his own R??i, in his own Nav???, or in his exaltation R??i, endowed with strength. 42-43?. Effects, like marriage, oblations (Yagya), charities, performance of religious rites, close relations with the king, social contacts with men of learning, acquisition of pearls, corals, Mani (jewels), conveyances, clothes, ornaments, good health, affections, enjoyments, drinking of Soma Rasa and other tasty syrups etc. will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Budh, if he is in a Kendr, or in aTrikon, or in the 11th, or in the 2nd from the Lord of the Dasha. 44-46. Pains in the body, loss in agricultural ventures, imprisonment, distress to wife and children will be the inauspicious effects, if Budh be in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or be in his debilitation R??i. If Budh is the Lord of Dhan, or Yuvati, there will be fear of fever. The remedial measures to be adopted for obtaining relief from the evil effects are recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam and giving a goat in charity. 47-48. Effects, like gain of wealth, enjoyment, happiness to wife and children, religious inclination etc., will arise in the Antar Dasha of Ketu in the Dasha of Candr, if Ketu is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, or Sahaj and is endowed with strength.There will be some loss of wealth at the commencement of the Antar Dasha. Later all will be well. 49-49?. Gain of wealth, cattle etc. will be the effects, if Ketu is in a Kendr, in the 9th, the 5th, or the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha and is equipped with strength. There will be loss of wealth at the end of the Antar Dasha. 50-52. There will be obstacles in ventures, due to interference by enemies and quarrels, if Ketu be in the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or receives a Drishti from, or is associated with malefics. If Ketu is in Dhan, or in Yuvati, there will be danger of affliction of the body with diseases. Mrityunjaya Japa will give relief in all the evil effects and will ensure gain of wealth and property with the beneficence of Lord Shiva. 53-55. Effects, like acquisition of a kingdom, gaining of clothes, ornaments, cattle, conveyances etc., happiness to wife and children, construction of a new house, availability of sweet preparations every day, use of perfumes, affairs with beautiful women, sound health etc. will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of ?ukr in the Dasha of Candr, if ?ukr is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, in Labh, Bandhu, or Dharm, or in his exaltation R??i, or in his own R??i. 56. Physical soundness, good reputation, acquisition of more land and houses, will result, if ?ukr is yuti with the Lord of the Dasha. 57-57?. There will be loss of landed property, children, wife and cattle and opposition from government, if ?ukr is in his debilitation R??i, combust, or receives a Drishti from, or is associated with malefics. 58-60. If ?ukr is in Dhan in his exaltation R??i, or in his own R??i, or is there, associated with the Lord of Labh, there will be acquisition of an underground hidden treasure, gain of land, enjoyment, birth of a son etc. Advancement of good fortune, fulfillment of ambitions with the beneficence of the king, devotion to deities and Brahmins, gain of jewels, like pearls etc. will result, if ?ukr is yuti with Dharm’s, or Labh’s Lord. 61.Acquisition of more house property and agricultural land and gain of wealth and enjoyment will be the good effects, if ?ukr is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon from the Lord of the Dasha. 62. Deportation to foreign lands, sorrows, death and danger from thieves and snakes will be the results, if ?ukr is in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 63-64. There will be danger of premature death, if ?ukr be the Lord of the 2nd, or 7th. The remedial measures to be adopted for obtaining relief from the evil effects are Rudra Japa and giving in charity a white cow and silver. 65-67. Recovery of a lost kingdom and wealth, happiness in the family, acquisition of villages and land with the kind assistance of one’s friends and the king, birth of a son, beneficence of Goddess Lakshmi, will be the beneficial results in the Antar Dasha of S?rya in the Dasha of Candr, if S?rya is in his exaltation R??i, in his own R??i, in a Kendr, or in Putr, or in Dharm, or in Labh, or in Dhan, or in Sahaj. At the end of the Antar Dasha there is the likelihood of attacks of fever and lethargy. 68-70. Danger from the government, thieves and snakes, affliction with fever and troubles in foreign journey are the likely results, if S?rya is in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. If S?rya is the Lord of Dhan, orYuvati, there will be sufferings from fever in hisAntar Dasha.Worship of Lord Shiva is the remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects. Ch. 54. Effects ofAntar Dashas in the Dasha of Mangal 1-2?. Effects, like gains of wealth by the beneficence of the king, beneficence of Goddess Lakshmi, recovery of a lost kingdom and of wealth, birth of a son, will arise in the Antar Dasha of Mangal in his own Dasha, if he is in a Kendr, in Putr, in Dharm, in Labh, in Sahaj, or in Dhan, or be associated with the Lord of Lagn. 3-4. Fulfillment of ambitions by the beneficence of the king and acquisition of a house, land, cow, buffalo etc. will be the effects, if Mangal is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or in his own Nav??? and is endowed with strength. 5-5?. Urinary troubles, wounds, danger from snakes and the king will be the results, if Mangal is in Randhr, orVyaya, or is associated with, or receives a Drishti from malefics. 6-8. There will be mental agony and body pains, if Mangal is the Lord of Dhan, or Yuvati. Lord Shiva will give relief by restoring health and providing gains of wealth and happiness, if the person concerned performs Rudr Japa and gives a red-coloured bull in charity. 9-10?. Effects, like recognition from government, gain of house, land etc., happiness from son, extraordinary profits in business, bathing in holy rivers, like Ganges and foreign journeys, will be the auspicious effects in the Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Dasha of Mangal, if Rahu is in his Multrikon, in his exaltation R??i, in a Kendr, in Labh, Putr, or Dharm and is associated with benefics. 11-14. Danger from snakes, wounds, destruction of cattle, danger from animals, diseases, due to imbalance of bile and wind, imprisonment etc. will be the results, if Rahu is in Randhr, orVyaya, or receives a Drishti from, or is associated with malefics. There will be loss of wealth, if Rahu is in Dhan and great danger of premature death, if he is in Yuvati. The remedial measure to be adopted to obtain relief from the above evil effects are Naga Puja, offering food to Brahmins and Mrityunjaya Japa. They will help in the prolongation of longevity. 15-16. Effects, like good reputation and renown, honours by government, increase in wealth and grains, happiness at home, gain of property, happiness from wife and children etc. will be realized in the Antar Dasha of Guru in the Dasha of Mangal, if Guru is in Dharm, or Putr, in a Kendr, or in Labh, or in Dhan, or, if Guru is in his exalted, or own Nav???. 17-19?. Acquisition of a house, land, well-being, gain of property, sound health, good reputation, gains of cattle, success in business, happiness to wife and children, reverence from government, gain of wealth etc. will be beneficial effects, if Guru is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if Guru is associated with the Lord of Dharm, Karm, or Bandhu, or Lagn, or, if Guru is in a benefic Nav??? etc. 20-22. Danger from thieves, snakes, wrath of the king, bilious diseases, oppression by goblins (Prot), loss of servants and co-borns, will be evil effects, if Guru is in Ari, Randhr, or in Vyaya, or, if Guru is in his debilitation R??i, or, if Guru is associated with, or receives a Drishti from malefics, or, if Guru is otherwise weak.There will be suffering from fever, or danger of premature death, if Guru is the Lord of Dhan. The remedial measure to be adopted to combat the above evil effects is recitation of Shiva Sahasranam. 23-25. Effects, like recognition from the king, increase in reputation, gain of wealth and grains, happiness from children and grandchildren, increase in the number of cows etc. will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of ?ani in the Dasha of Mangal, if ?ani is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, in his Multrikon, in his exalted, or his own Nav???, or, if ?ani is associated with the Lord of Lagn, or, if ?ani is associated with benefics. Results will generally fructify on Saturdays in the month of ?ani. 26-26?. Danger fromYavana kings (foreign dignitaries), loss of wealth, imprisonment, possibility of affliction with diseases, loss in agricultural production will result, if ?ani is in his debilitation R??i, or in an enemy R??i, or, if ?ani is in Randhr, or in Vyaya. 27-29?. Effects, like great danger, loss of life, wrath of king, mental agony, danger from thieves and fire, punishment by the king, loss of co-borns, dissensions amongst members of the family, loss of cattle, fear of death, distress to wife and children, imprisonment etc. will be felt, if ?ani is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord and is associated with malefics. 30-32. There will be journeys to foreign lands, loss of reputation, violent actions, loss from sale of agricultural lands, loss of position, agony, defeat in battle, urinary troubles etc., if ?ani is in a Kendr, in the 11th, or in the 5th from the Lord of the Dasha. 33-35. Effects, like death, danger from the king and thieves, rheumatism, pains, danger from the enemy and members of the family, will be experienced, if ?ani is in the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha and is associated with malefics. There will be relief from the evil effects by the beneficence of Lord Shiva, if Mrityunjaya is performed in the prescribed manner. 36-37?. Effects, like association with pious and holy persons, performance ofAjaya Japa, charities, observance of religious rites, gain of reputation, inclination towards diplomacy, availability of sweetish preparations, acquisition of conveyances, clothes and cattle etc., conferment of authority in the king’s retinue, success in agricultural projects etc., will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of Budh in the Dasha of Mangal, if Budh is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon from Lagn. 38-39. Diseases of heart, imprisonment, loss of kinsmen, distress to wife and children, destruction of wealth and cattle etc. will result, if Budh is in his debilitation R??i, if Budh is combust, or, if Budh is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya. 40-40?. There will be journeys to foreign lands, increase in the number of enemies, affliction with many kind of ailments, antagonism with the king, quarrels with kinsmen etc., if Budh be associated with the Lord of the Dasha. 41-43?. Fulfillment of all ambitions, gain of wealth and grains, recognition by the king, acquisition of a kingdom, gain of clothes and ornaments, attachment to many kind of musical instruments, attainment of the position of a Commander of an Army, discussions on Shastras and Puranas, gain of riches to wife and children and beneficence of Goddess Lakshmi will be the very auspicious results, if Budh is in a Kendr, orTrikon from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if Budh is in his exaltation R??i. 44-45?. Effects, like defamation, sinful thinking, harsh speech, danger from thieves, fire and the king, quarrels without reason, fear of attacks by thieves and dacoits (armed robber bands) during travels, will be derived, if Budh is in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from Mangal, or is associated with malefics. 46-47. There will be a possibility of critical illness in the Antar Dasha of Budh, if he is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Remedial measures to obtain relief from these evil effects are recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam and giving a horse in charity. 48-49?. Beneficence of the king, gain of wealth, little gains of land at the commencement of the Dasha and substantial later, birth of a son, conferment of authority by government, gain of cattle etc. will be the results in the Antar Dasha of Ketu in the Dasha of Mangal, if Ketu is in a Kendr, in aTrikon, in Sahaj, or Labh, or, if Ketu is associated with, or receives a Drishti from benefics. 50-51?. Birth of a son, increase in reputation, beneficence of Goddess Lakshmi, gains of wealth from employees, attainment of the position of a Commander of an Army, friendship with the king, performance of oblations, gains of clothes and ornaments etc. will be the beneficial effects, if Ketu is a Yog Karak and is endowed with strength. (Ketu assumes the role of a Yog Karak, if he is yuti with a Yog Karak Grah (Lord of a Kendr and a Trikon)). 52-54. Effects, like quarrels, tooth trouble, distress from thieves and tigers, fever, dysentery, leprosy and distress to wife and children etc. will be experienced, if Ketu is in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. If Ketu is in Dhan, or in Yuvati, there will be diseases, disgrace, agony and loss of wealth. 55-56?. Effects, like acquisition of a kingdom, great enjoyment and comfort of luxuries, gain of elephants, horses, clothes etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of ?ukr in the Dasha of Mangal, if ?ukr is in a Kendr to Lagn, if ?ukr is in his exaltation, or in his own R??i, or, if ?ukr is Lagn’s, Putr’s, or Dharm’s Lord. If ?ukr is related to Lagn’s Lord, there will be happiness to wife and children, opulence and glory and increased good fortune. 57-60. Gain of property, celebrations on the birth of a son, gain of wealth from the employer, acquisition of a house, land, villages etc. by the beneficence of the sovereign, will be the results, if ?ukr is in the 5th, the 9th, the 11th, or the 2nd from the Lord of the Dasha. In the last part of the Dasha there will be functions of songs and dances and bathing in holy water. If ?ukr is connected with, or related to the Lord of Karm, there will be construction of wells, reservoirs etc. and performance of religious, charitable and pious deeds. 61-62. There will be sorrows, physical distress, loss of wealth, danger from thieves and the king, dissensions in the family, distress to wife and children and destruction of cattle, if ?ukr be in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or be associated with malefics. 63. If ?ukr be the Lord of the 2nd, or the 7th, there will be pains in the body in hisAntar Dasha. For regaining good health the remedial measure to be adopted is giving a cow, or female buffalo in charity. 64-66. Effects, like acquisition of conveyances, gain of reputation, birth of a son, growth of wealth, amicable atmosphere in the family, sound health, potency, recognition by the the king, extraordinary profits in business and audience with the king etc. will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of S?rya in the Dasha of Mangal, if S?rya is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or, if S?rya is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, or in Labh along with Karm’s Lord and with Labh’s Lord. 67-67?. Distress to the body, agony, failure in ventures, possibilities of suffering from troubles in the forehead, fever, dysentery etc. will be the effects, if S?rya is in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if S?rya is associated with malefics. 68-69. There will be attacks of fever, danger from snakes and poison and distress to son, if S?rya be the Lord of the 2nd, or the 7th. The remedial measure to gain good health and wealth is to perform worship of S?rya in the prescribed manner. 70-73. Acquisition of more kingdom, gain of perfumes, clothes, construction of reservoirs, shelters for cows etc., celebrations of auspicious functions, like marriage etc., happiness to wife and children, good relations with parents, acquisition of property by the beneficence of the sovereign, success in the desired projects will be the effects in the Antar Dasha of Candr in the Dasha of Mangal, if Candr is in her exaltation R??i, or in her own R??i, or in a Kendr, or in Dharm, or in Bandhu, or in Karm, or in Lagn along with the Lords of those Bhavas. The good effects will be realized in full, if Candr is waxing. Waning Candr will reduce the impact of the effects to some extent. 74-76. The effects, like death, distress to wife and children, loss of lands, wealth and cattle and danger of a war etc. will be experienced, if Candr is in his debilitation R??i, or, if Candr is in his enemy R??i, or, if Candr is in Ari, in Randhr, or in Vyaya from Lagn, or from the Lord of the Dasha.There will be the possibility of premature death, distress to the body and mental agony, if Candr is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to be adopted to obtain relief from the above evil effects, are recitation of Mantras of the Goddess Durga and the Goddess Lakshmi. Ch. 55. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Rahu 1-4. Effects, like acquisition of a kingdom, enthusiasm, cordial relations with the king, happiness from wife and children and increase in property, will be derived in theAntar Dasha of Rahu in the Dasha of Rahu, if Rahu is in Kark, Vrischik, Kanya, or Dhanu and is in Sahaj, Ari, Karm, or Labh, or is yuti with a Yog Karak Grah in his exaltation R??i. 5-6. There will be danger from thieves, distress from wounds, antagonism with government officials, destruction of kinsmen, distress to wife and children, if Rahu is in Randhr, orVyaya, or be associated with malefics. 7. If Rahu is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord, or is in Dhan, orYuvati, there will be distress and diseases. To obtain relief from the above evil effects Rahu should be worshipped (by recitation of his Mantras) and by giving in charity things, connected with, or ruled by Rahu. 8-12?. Effects, like gain of position, patience, destruction of foes, enjoyment, cordial relations with the king, regular increase in wealth and property, like the growth of Candr of the bright half of the month (Shukla Paksh), gain of conveyance and cows, audience with the king by performing journey to the West, or South-East, success in the desired ventures, return to one’s homeland, doing good for Brahmins, visit to holy places, gain of a village, devotion to deities and Brahmins, happiness from wife, children and grand children, availability of sweetish preparations daily etc. will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Guru in the Dasha of Rahu, if Guru is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in his own Nav???, or in his exalted Nav???, or, if Guru is in a Kendr, or in aTrikon with reference to Lagn. 13-14?. Loss of wealth, obstacles in work, defamation, distress to wife and children, heart disease, entrustment of governmental authority etc. will result, if Guru is in his debilitation R??i, is combust, is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, is in an enemy R??i, or is associated with malefics. 15-17. There will be gains of land, good food, gains of cattle etc., inclinations towards charitable and religious work etc., if Guru is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, the 11th, the 2nd, or the 3rd from the Lord of the Dasha and is endowed with strength. 18-20. Loss of wealth and distress to body will result, if Guru is in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if Guru is associated with malefics. There will be danger of premature death, if Guru is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The person will get relief from the above evil effects and enjoy good health by the beneficence of the Lord Shiva, if he worships his idol, made of gold. 21-24. Effects, like pleasure of the king for devotion in his service, auspicious functions, like celebration of marriage etc. at home, construction of a garden, reservoir etc., gain of wealth and cattle from well-to-do persons, belonging to the Sudra class, loss of wealth caused by the king during journey to the West, reduction in income, due to lethargy, return to homeland, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of ?ani in the Dasha of Rahu, if ?ani is in a Kendr, in aTrikon, in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in his Multrikon, in Sahaj, or in Labh. 25-26. Danger from menials, the king and enemies, distress to wife and children, distress to kinsmen, disputes with the coparceners, disputes in dealings with others, but sudden gain of ornaments, will result, if ?ani is in his debilitation R??i, in his enemy’s R??i, or in Randhr, orVyaya. 27-29. There will be heart disease, defamation, quarrels, danger from enemies, foreign journeys, affliction with Gulma, unpalatable food and sorrows etc., if ?ani is in the 6th, the 8th, or the 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. Premature death is likely, if ?ani is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects and to regain good health is giving a black cow, or a she-buffalo in charity. 30-33. Auspicious effects, like RajYog, well being in the family, profits and gain of wealth in business, comforts of conveyances, marriage and other auspicious functions, increase in the number of cattle, gain of perfumes, comforts of bed, women etc., will be derived in theAntar Dasha of Budh in the Dasha of Rahu, if Budh is in his exaltation R??i, in a Kendr, or in Putr and, if Budh is endowed with strength. Good results, like Raj Yog, beneficence of the king and gain of wealth and reputation, will be realized particularly on Wednesday in the month of Budh. 34-35. Sound health, Isht Siddhi, attending discourse on Puranas and ancient history, marriage, offering of oblations, charities, religious inclination and sympathetic attitude towards others will result, if Budh is in a Kendr, in the 11th, 3rd, 9th, or 10th from the Lord of the Dasha. 36-38. There will be opprobrium (Ninda) of deities and Brahmins by the native, loss of fortune, speaking lies, unwise actions, fear from snakes, thieves and the government, quarrels, distress to wife and children etc., if Budh is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, or, if Budh receives a Drishti from ?ani. 39. If Budh is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord, there will be fear of premature death. Remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam. 40-41. During the Antar Dasha of Ketu in the Dasha of Rahu there will be journeys to foreign countries, danger from the king, rheumatic fever etc. and loss of cattle. If Ketu is yuti with Randhr’s Lord, there will be distress to the body and mental tension. Enjoyment, gain of wealth, recognition by the king, acquisition of gold etc. will be the results, if Ketu is associated with, or receives a Drishti from benefics. 42-42?. There will be Isht Siddhi, if Ketu is related to the Lord of Lagn. If he is associated with the Lord of Lagn, there will definitely be gain of wealth. There will also definitely be increase in the number of cattle, if Ketu is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon. 43-45. Effects, like danger from thieves and snakes, distress from wounds, separation from parents, antagonistic relations with kinsmen, mental agony etc. will be derived, if Ketu is without strength in Randhr, orVyaya. If Ketu is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord, there will be distress to the body. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is giving a goat in charity. 46-47?. Effects, like gains of wealth through Brahmins, increase in the number of cattle, celebrations for the birth of a son, well-being, recognition from government, acquisition of a kingdom, attainment of a high position in government, great enjoyment and comforts etc. will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of ?ukr in the Dasha of Rahu, if ?ukr is with strength in a Kendr, in a Trikon, or in Labh. 48-50?. Construction of a new house, availability of sweet preparations, happiness from wife and children, association with friends, giving of grains etc. in charity, beneficence of the king, gain of conveyances and clothes, extraordinary profits in business, celebration of Upasayan ceremony of wearing the sacred thread (Janou) etc. will be the auspicious results, if ?ukr be in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in is exalted, or in his own Nav???. 51-53?. There will be diseases, quarrels, separation from one’s son, or father, distress to kinsmen, disputes with coparceners, danger of death to oneself, or to one’s employer, unhappiness to wife and children, pain in the stomach etc., if ?ukr is in Ari, Randhr, or Vyaya, in his debilitation, or in an enemy’s R??i, or, if ?ukr is associated with ?ani, Mangal, or Rahu. 54-55?, Enjoyments from perfumes, bed, music etc., gain of a desired object, fulfillment of desires will be the results, if ?ukr is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, in the 11th, or in the 10th from the Lord of the Dasha. 56-59. Effects, like danger from the wrath of Brahmins, snakes and the king, possibility of affliction with diseases, like stoppage of urine, diabetes, pollution of blood, anaemia, availability of only coarse food, nervous disorder, imprisonment, loss of wealth, as a result of penalties, or fines, imposed by government, will be derived, if ?ukr is associated with malefics in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha.There will be distress to wife and children, danger of premature death to oneself, if ?ukr is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are worship of Goddess Durga and Goddess Lakshmi. 60-61?. Effects, like cordial relations with the king, increase in wealth and grains, some popularity/respect, some possibility of becoming head of a village etc., will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of S?rya in the Dasha of Rahu, if S?rya is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in Labh, in a Kendr, or in a Trikon, or in his exalted, or own Nav???. 62-63?. There will be good reputation and encouragement and assistance by government, journeys to foreign countries, acquisition of the sovereignty of the country, gains of elephants, horses, clothes, ornaments, fulfillment of ambitions, happiness to children etc., if S?rya is associated with, or receives a Drishti from Lagn’s, Dhan’s, or Karm’s Lord. 64-65. Fevers, dysentery, other diseases, quarrels, antagonism with the king, travels, danger from foes, thieves, fire etc. will be the results, if S?rya is in his debilitation R??i, or, if S?rya is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 1. Well-being in every way and recognition from kings in foreign countries will be the results, if S?rya is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, in the 3rd, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 2. There will be danger of critical illness, if S?rya is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Worship of S?rya is the remedial measure, recommended to obtain relief from the above evil effects. 68-70. Effects, like acquisition of a kingdom, respect from the king, gains of wealth, sound health, gains of garments and ornaments, happiness from children, comforts of conveyances, increase in house and landed property etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Candr in the Dasha of Rahu, if Candr is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in a Kendr, Trikon, or in Labh, or, if Candr is in a friendly R??i, receiving a Drishti from benefics. 71-72. Beneficence of the Goddess Lakshmi, all-round success, increase in wealth and grains, good reputation and worship of deities will be the results, if Candr is in the 5th, 9th, in a Kendr, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 73-75. There will be the creation of disturbances at home and in the agricultural activities by evil spirits, leopards and other wild animals, danger from thieves during journeys and stomach disorders, if Candr is bereft of strength in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha.There will the possibility of premature death, if Candr is Dhan’s, orVyaya’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is to give in charity a white cow, or a female buffalo. 76-77?. Effects, like the recovery of a lost kingdom and recovery of lost wealth, property at home and increase in agricultural production, gain of wealth, blessings by the household deity (Isht Dev), happiness from children, enjoyment of good food etc., will be derived in theAntar Dasha of Mangal in the Dasha of Rahu, if Mangal is in Labh, Putr, or Dharm, or, if Mangal is in a Kendr, if Mangal receives a Drishti from benefics, or, if Mangal is in his exaltation, or in his own R??i. 78-79?. There will be acquisition of red-coloured garments, journeys, audience with the king, well-being of children and employer, attainment of the position of a Commander of the Army, enthusiasm and gain of wealth through kinsmen, if Mangal is in a Kendr, in the 5th, 9th, 3rd, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 80-82. Distress to wife, children and co-borns, loss of position, antagonistic relations with children, wife and other close relations, danger from thieves, wounds and pain in the body etc. will result, if Mangal is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, receiving a Drishti from malefics. 83. There will be lethargy and danger of death, if Mangal is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is giving a cow, or a bull in charity. Ch. 56. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Guru 1-3?. Effects, like sovereignty over many kings, very well endowed with riches, revered by the king, gains of cattle, clothes, ornaments, conveyances, construction of a new house and a decent mansion, opulence and glory, dawn of fortune, success in ventures, meetings with Brahmins and the king, extraordinary profits from the employer and happiness to wife and children, will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of Guru in his own Dasha, if Guru is in his exaltation R??i, in his own R??i, in a Kendr, orTrikon. 4-5?. Association with the menials, great distress, slander by coparceners, wrath of the employer, danger of premature death, separation from wife and children and loss of wealth and grains will be the results, if Guru is in his debilitation R??i, in his debilitated Nav???, or in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya. 6-7. There will be pains in the body, if Guru is the Lord ofYuvati (or of Dhan). The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects and to get fulfillment of ambitions is recitation of Rudr Japa and Shiva Sahasranam. 8-11?. Effects, like acquisition of a kingdom, gain of clothes, ornaments, wealth, grains, conveyances, cattle and position, happiness from son and friends etc., gains specially of a blue-coloured horse, journey to the West, audience with the king and receipt of wealth from him, will be derived in theAntar Dasha of ?ani in the Dasha of Guru, if ?ani is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in a Kendr, orTrikon endowed with strength. 12-14. Loss of wealth, affliction with fever, mental agony, infliction of wounds to wife and children, inauspicious events at home, loss of cattle and employment, antagonism with kinsmen etc. will be results, if ?ani is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, if ?ani is combust, or, if ?ani is in an enemy’s R??i. 15-15?. There will be gain of land, house, son and cattle, acquisition of riches and property through the enemy etc., if ?ani is in Kendr, Trikon, the 11th, or in the 2nd from the Lord of the Dasha. 16-17. Effects, like loss of wealth, antagonistic relations with kinsmen, obstacles in industrial ventures, pains in the body, danger from the members of the family etc. will be realized, if ?ani is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if ?ani is associated with a malefic. 18-19. There will be fear of premature death, if ?ani is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from these evil effects and to enjoy sound health are recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam and giving in charity a black cow, or a female buffalo. 20-21?. Effects, like gains of wealth, bodily felicity, acquisition of a kingdom, gain of conveyances, clothes and cattle etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Budh in the Dasha of Guru, if Budh is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or in Kendr, in Trikon, or, if Budh is associated with the Lord of the Dasha. 22-22?. There will be increase in the number of enemies, loss of enjoyment and comforts, loss in business, affliction with fever and dysentery, if Budh receives a Drishti from Mangal. 23-24 Gains of wealth in his own country, happiness from parents and acquisition of conveyances by the beneficence of the king will result, if Budh is in a Kendr, in the 5th, or 9th from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if Budh is in his exaltation R??i. 25-26. There will be loss of wealth, journeys to foreign countries, danger from thieves while traveling, wounds, burning sensations, eye troubles, wanderings in foreign lands, if Budh is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if Budh is associated with a malefic without receiving a Drishti from a benefic. 27-28. Distress without reason, anger, loss of cattle, loss in business, fear of premature death etc. will be the results, if Budh be associated with a malefic, or malefics in Ari, in Randhr, or in Vyaya. 29-29?. There will be enjoyment, gains of wealth, conveyances and clothes at the commencement of the Antar Dasha, even if Budh is associated with a malefic, but receives a Drishti from a benefic.At the end of the Dasha, however, there will be loss of wealth and bodily distress. 30-31. Premature death may be expected, if Budh is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The most effective and beneficial remedial measure for prolongation of longevity and to obtain relief from other evil effects is recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam. 32-32?. Moderate enjoyment, moderate gain of wealth, coarse food, or food, given by others, food, given at the time of death ceremonies and acquisition of wealth through undesirable means will be the results, in theAntar Dasha of Ketu in the Dasha of Guru, if Ketu is associated with, or receives a Drishti from a benefic. 33-34. Effects, like loss of wealth by the wrath of the king, imprisonment, diseases, loss of physical strength, antagonism with father and brother and mental agony, will be experienced, if Ketu be in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or be associated with malefics. 35-36?. Acquisition of a palanquin, elephants etc., beneficence of the king, success in the desired spheres, profits in business, increase in the number of cattle, gain of wealth, clothes etc. from a Yavana king (Muslim dignitary) will be the auspicious effects, if Ketu is in the 5th, 9th, 4th, or 10th from the Lord of the Dasha. 37-38. There will be physical distress, if Ketu is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord (or, if Ketu is in Dhan, or in Yuvati. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is performance of Mrityunjaya Japa in the prescribed manner. 39-43. Effects, like acquisition of conveyances, like palanquin, elephants etc., gain of wealth by the beneficence of the king, enjoyment, gain of blue and red articles, extraordinary income from journeys to the East, well-being in the family, happiness from parents, devotion to deities, construction of reservoirs, charities etc., will be derived in theAntar Dasha of ?ukr, if ?ukr is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in Labh, or, if ?ukr is in his own R??i and receives a Drishti from a benefic, or from benefics. 44-44?. Evil effects, like quarrels, antagonism with kinsmen, distress to wife and children, will be felt, if ?ukr is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or Lagn, or, if ?ukr is in his debilitation R??i. There will be quarrels, danger from the king, antagonism with the wife, disputes with the father-in-law and with brothers, loss of wealth etc., if ?ukr is associated with ?ani, or Rahu, or with both. 45-47?. There will be gain of wealth, happiness from wife, meeting with the king, increase in the number of children, conveyances and cattle, enjoyment of music, society with men of learning, availability of sweetish preparations, giving help and assistance to kinsmen etc., if ?ukr is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in the 2nd from the Lord of the Dasha. 48-50. Loss of wealth, fear of premature death, antagonism with wife etc. will be experienced, if ?ukr is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from these evil effects is giving a tawny-coloured cow, or a female buffalo in charity. 51-53. Gain of wealth, reverence, happiness and acquisition of conveyances, clothes, ornaments etc., birth of children, cordial relations with the king, success in ventures etc. will be the auspicious results in theAntar Dasha of S?rya in the Dasha of Guru, if S?rya is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in a Kendr, Trikon, or in Sahaj, Labh, or Dhan and be endowed with strength. 54-55?. Effects, like nervous disorder, fever, laziness, or reluctance in the performance of good deeds, indulgence in sins, antagonistic attitude towards all, separation from kinsmen and distress without reasons, will be experienced, if S?rya is in Ari, Randhr, or Vyaya, or, if S?rya is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 56-57. There will be physical distress, if S?rya is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects and to enjoy good health is recitation ofAdhitya Hridaya Path. 58-60?. Effects, like reverence from the king, opulence and glory, happiness from wife and children, availability of good food, gain of reputation by performance of good deeds, increase in the number of children and grandchildren, comforts by the beneficence of the king, religious and charitable inclinations etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Candr in the Dasha of Guru, if Candr is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in Labh, or, if Candr is in her exaltation, or in her own R??i and, if Candr is full and strong and in an auspicious Bhava from the Lord of the Dasha. 61-63. There will be loss of wealth and kinsmen, wanderings in foreign lands, danger from the king, thieves, quarrels with coparceners, separation from a maternal uncle, distress to mother etc., if Candr is weak, or is associated with malefics, or, if Candr is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, or, if Candr is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 64. Physical distress will be experienced, if Candr is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above effects is Durga Saptashati Path. 65-66. Effects, like the celebration of functions, such as marriage etc., gain of land, or villages, growth of strength and valour and success in all ventures, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Mangal in the Dasha of Guru, if Mangal is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or in his exalted, or own Nav???. 67-68. There will be gain of wealth and grains, availability of good sweetish preparations, pleasure of the king, happiness from wife and children and other auspicious effects, if Mangal is in a Kendr,Trikon, in Labh, or Dhan and is associated with, or receives a Drishti from benefics. 69-71. Loss of wealth and house, eye trouble and other inauspicious effects will be the results, if Mangal is in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if Mangal is in his debilitation R??i, associated with, or receiving a Drishti from malefics. The effects will be particularly adverse at the commencement of the Antar Dasha. There will be some mitigation of evil effects later. There will be physical distress and mental agony, if Mangal is the Lord of Dhan, orYuvati. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects and to get gains of wealth and property is to give a bull in charity. 72-75. Effects, like attachment to Yog, gain of wealth and grains during the first five months, sovereignty over a village, or country, meeting with a foreign king, well-being in the family, journeys to distant lands, bathing in holy places, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Dasha of Guru, if Rahu is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in his Multrikon, or, if Rahu is in a Kendr, orTrikon, or, if Rahu receives a Drishti from the Lord of a Kendr, or, if Rahu is associated with, or receives a Drishti from a benefic. 76-78. Danger from thieves, snakes, the king, wounds, troubles in domestic affairs, antagonism with co-borns and coparceners, bad dreams, quarrels without reason, danger from diseases etc. will result, if Rahu is associated with a malefic, if Rahu is in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 79-80. There will be physical distress, if Rahu is in Dhan, or in Yuvati. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are Mrityunjaya Japa and giving a goat in charity. Ch. 57. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of ?ani 1-3. Effects, like acquisition of a kingdom, happiness from wife and children, acquisition of conveyances, like elephants, gain of clothes, attainment of the position of a Commander of the Army by the beneficence of the king, acquisition of cattle, villages and land etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of ?ani in the Dasha of ?ani, if ?ani is in his own, in his exaltation R??i, or in deep exaltation, or, if ?ani is in a Kendr, or Trikon, or, if ?ani is a Yog Karak. 4-5?. Fear, or danger from the king, getting inflicted with injuries with some weapon, bleeding gums, dysentery etc. will be the evil effects at the commencement of the Dasha, if ?ani is in Randhr, orVyaya, or, if ?ani is associated with malefics in his debilitation R??i. There will be danger from thieves etc., going away from the homeland, mental agony etc. in the middle portion of the Dasha. The last part of the Dasha will yield beneficial results. 6-7. There will be danger of premature death, if ?ani is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Lord Shiva will afford protection and render relief, if Mrityunjaya Japa is performed in the prescribed manner. 8-11. Effects, like reverence from the people, good reputation, gain of wealth, comforts of conveyances etc., inclination towards performance of religious sacrifices (Yagyas), RajYog, bodily felicity, enthusiasm, well-being in the family, pilgrimage to holy places, performance of religious rites, listening to Puranas, charities, availability of sweetish preparations etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Budh in the Dasha of ?ani, if Budh is in a Kendr, orTrikon. 12-13?. Acquisition of a kingdom, gain of wealth, headship of a village will be the effects at the commencement of the Dasha, if Budh is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya from Lagn, or from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if Budh is associated with S?rya, Mangal and Rahu. Affliction with diseases, failure in all ventures, anxiety and feeling of danger etc. will be experienced in the middle portion and in the last part of the Dasha. 14-15. There will be physical distress, if Budh is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects and to regain enjoyment in life are recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam and giving grains in charity. 16-18. Evil effects, like loss of position, dangers, poverty, distress, foreign journeys etc., will be derived in theAntar Dasha of Ketu in the Dasha of ?ani, even if Ketu is in his exaltation, in his own, in a benefic R??i, or in a Kendr, orTrikon, or, if Ketu is associated with, or receives a Drishti from benefics. If Ketu is related to the Lagn’s Lord, there will be gain of wealth and enjoyment and bathing in holy places and visit to a sacred shrine at the commencement of the Antar Dasha. 19-19?. Gain of physical strength and courage, religious thoughts, audience with the king (high dignitaries of government, like president, prime minister, governor, ministers) and all kinds of enjoyments will be experienced, if Ketu is in a Kendr, in a Trikon, in the 3rd, or 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 20-21?. Fear of premature death, coarse food, cold fever, dysentery, wounds, danger from thieves, separation from wife and children etc., will be the results, if Ketu is in Randhr, orVyaya from Lagn, or from the Lord of the Dasha. 22-23. There will be physical distress, if Ketu is in Dhan, orYuvati. Remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects and to regain enjoyments of life by the beneficence of Ketu is giving a goat in charity. 24-27?. Effects, like marriage, birth of a son, gain of wealth, sound health, well-being in the family, acquisition of a kingdom, enjoyments by the beneficence of the king, honours, gain of clothes, ornaments, conveyance and other desired objects, will be derived in theAntar Dasha of ?ukr in the Dasha of ?ani, if ?ukr is in a Kendr,Trikon, or in Labh, associated with, or receiving a Drishti from benefics. If during the period of Antar Dasha of ?ukr Guru is favourable in transit, there will be dawn of fortune and growth of property. If ?ani is favourable in transit, there will be RajYog effects, or the accomplishment ofYog rites (Yog Triya Siddhi). 28-29. Distress to wife, loss of position, mental agony, quarrels with close relations etc. will be the results, if ?ukr is in his debilitation R??i, if ?ukr is combust, or, if ?ukr is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya. 30-31?. Fulfillment of ambitions by the beneficence of the king, charities, performance of religious rites, creation of interest in the study of Shastras, composition of poems, interest in Vedanta etc., listening to Puranas, happiness from wife and children will be experienced, if ?ukr is in Dharm, Labh, or Kendr from the Lord of the Dasha. 32-34. There will be eye trouble, fevers, loss of good conduct, dental problems, heart disease, pain in arms, danger from drowning, or falling from a tree, antagonism towards relations with the officials of government and brothers, if ?ukr is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 35-36. There will be physical distress, if ?ukr is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects and to regain enjoyment and good health is by the beneficence of Goddess Durga and the performance of Durga Saptashati Path and giving a cow, or a female buffalo in charity. 37-38?. Effects, like good relations with one’s employer, well-being in the family, happiness from children, gain of conveyances and cattle etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of S?rya in the Dasha of ?ani, if S?rya is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or, if S?rya is associated with Dharm’s Lord, or, if S?rya is in a Kendr, orTrikon, associated with, or receiving a Drishti from benefics. 39-41. There will be heart disease, defamation, loss of position, mental agony, separation from close relatives, obstacles in industrial ventures, fevers, fears, loss of kinsmen, loss of articles, dear to the person, if S?rya is in Randhr, orVyaya, or, if S?rya is in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 42. There will be physical distress, if S?rya is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The worship of S?rya is the remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects. 43-45. Effects, like gains of conveyance, garments, ornaments, improvement of fortune and enjoyments, taking care of brothers, happiness in both maternal and paternal homes, increase in cattle wealth etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Candr in the Dasha of ?ani, if Candr is full, in her exaltation, or in her own R??i, or in a Kendr, orTrikon, or in the 11th from the Dasha Lord, or, if Candr receives a Drishti from benefics. 46-48?. There will be great distress, wrath, separation from parents, ill health of children, losses in business, irregular meals, administration of medicines, if Candr is waning, if Candr is associated with, or receives Drishti from malefics, or, if Candr is in his debilitation R??i, or, if Candr is in malefic Nav???, or, if Candr is in the R??i of a malefic Grah. There will, however, be good effects and some gain of wealth at the commencement of the Antar Dasha. 49-50?. Enjoyment of conveyances and garments, happiness from kinsmen, happiness from parents, wife, employer etc. will be the results, if Candr is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 51-52. Effects, like sleepiness, lethargy, loss of position, loss of enjoyments, increase in the number of enemies, antagonism with kinsmen, will be experienced, if Candr is weak and is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 53-54. There will be lethargy and physical distress, if Candr is Dhan’, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects and prolongation of longevity are Havan and giving jaggery, Gh?, rice, mixed with curd, a cow, or a female buffalo in charity. 55-57. Effects, like enjoyments, gain of wealth, reverence from the king, gain of conveyances, clothes and ornaments, attainment of the position of a Commander of the Army, increase in agricultural and cattle wealth, construction of a new house, happiness to kinsmen, will be derived from the very commencement of the Antar Dasha of Mangal in the Dasha of ?ani, if Mangal is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or, if Mangal is associated with Lagn’s Lord, or with the Dasha Lord. 58-60. There will be loss of wealth, danger of wounds, danger from thieves, snakes, weapons, gout and other similar diseases, distress to father and brothers, quarrels with copartners, loss of kinsmen, coarse food, going away to foreign lands, unnecessary expenditure etc., if Mangal is in his debilitation R??i, or combust, or in Randhr, orVyaya and associated with, or receiving a Drishti from malefics. 61-62. Great distress, dependence on others and fear of premature death, may be expected, if Mangal is in Dhan, or, if Mangal isYuvati’s, or Randhr’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are performance of Havan and giving a bull in charity. 63-64. Effects, like quarrels, mental agony, physical distress, agony, antagonism with the sons, danger from diseases, unnecessary expenditure, discord with close relations, danger from the government, foreign journeys, loss of house and agricultural lands, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Dasha of ?ani, if Rahu not be in his house of exaltation, or any other auspicious position. 65-67. Enjoyment, gains of wealth, increase in agricultural production, devotion to deities and Brahmins, pilgrimage to holy places, increase in cattle wealth, well-being in the family will be the results at the commencement of the Antar Dasha, if Rahu is associated with Lagn’s Lord, or a Yog Karak Grah, or, if Rahu is in his exaltation, or in his own R??i, or, if Rahu is in a Kendr, or Labh from Lagn, or from the Lord of the Dasha.There will be cordiality with the king and happiness from friends in the middle portion of the Antar Dasha. 68-68?. There will be acquisition of elephants, opulence and glory, cordial relations with the king, gains of valuable clothes, if Rahu is in Mesh, Kanya, Kark, Vrishabh, Meen, or Dhanu. 69-70. There will be physical distress, if Rahu is associated with Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are Mrityunjaya Japa and giving a goat in charity. 71-73?. Effects, like success all-round, well-being in the family, gain of conveyances, ornaments and clothes by the beneficence of the king, reverence, devotion to deities and the preceptor, association with men of learning, happiness from wife and children etc., will be derived in theAntar Dasha of Guru in the Dasha of ?ani, if Guru is in a Kendr, or in a Trikon, or, if Guru is associated with Lagn’s Lord, or, if Guru is in his own, or in his exaltation R??i. 74-75?. Results, like death of the near relations, loss of wealth, antagonism with the government officials, failure in projects, journeys to foreign lands, affliction with diseases, like leprosy etc., will be experienced, if Guru is in his debilitation R??i, or, if Guru is associated with malefics, or, if Guru is in Ari, Sahaj, orVyaya. 76-78. There will be opulence and glory, happiness to wife, gains through the king, comforts of good food and clothes, religious-mindedness, name and fame in the country, interest in Vedas and Vedanta, performance of religious sacrifices, giving grains etc. in charity, if Guru is in the 5th, 9th, 11th, 2nd, or Kendr from the Lord of the Dasha. 79-80. Antagonism with kinsmen, mental agony, quarrels, loss of position, losses in ventures, loss of wealth, as a result of imposition of fines, or penalties by government, imprisonment distress to wife and son will be the results, if Guru is weak and is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 81-82. There will be physical distress, agony, death of the native, or any member of the family, if Guru is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are recitation of Shiva Sahasranam and giving gold in charity. Ch. 58. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Budh 1-3?. Gain of jewels, like pearls etc., learning, increase in happiness and performance of pious deeds, success in the educational sphere, acquisition of name and fame, meeting with new kings, gain of wealth and happiness from wife, children and parents will be the effects in the Antar Dasha of Budh in his own Dasha, if Budh is placed in his exaltation R??i, or is otherwise well placed. There will be loss of wealth and cattle, antagonism with kinsmen, diseases, like stomach pains, piety in discharging duties, as a government official, if Budh is in his debilitation R??i etc., or, if Budh is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, or, if Budh is associated with malefics. 4-5. Distress to wife, death of members of the family, affliction with diseases, like rheumatism and stomach pains etc. will result, if Budh is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects, is recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam. 6-8?. Effects, like physical fitness, little gain of wealth, affectionate relations with kinsmen, increase in cattle wealth, income from industries, success in the educational sphere, acquisition of name and fame, honours, audience with the king and joining a banquet with him, comforts of clothes etc., will be experienced, if Ketu is associated with benefics in a Kendr, orTrikon, or, if Ketu is yuti with Lagn’s Lord, or with a Yog Karak. The same will be the results, if Ketu is in a Kendr, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 9-11. Fall from a conveyance, distress to son, danger from the king, indulgence in sinful deeds, danger from scorpions etc., quarrels with the menials, sorrow, diseases and association with menials etc. will be the results, if Ketu is yuti with malefics in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 12. There will be physical distress, if Ketu is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects, is giving a goat in charity. 13-15?. Effects, like inclination to perform religious rites, fulfillment of all ambitions through the help of the king and friends, gains of agricultural lands and happiness etc. will be derived in theAntar Dasha of ?ukr in the Dasha of Budh, if ?ukr is in a Kendr, in Labh, in Putr, or in Dharm. There will be acquisition of a kingdom, gain of wealth and property, construction of a reservoir, readiness to give charities and to perform religious rites, extraordinary gain of wealth and gains in business, if ?ukr is in a Kendr, in the 5th, 9th, or 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 16-17?. Heart disease, defamation, fevers, dysentery, separation from kinsmen, physical distress and agony will result, if ?ukr is weak in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord, or the Dasha. 18-19. There will be fear of premature death, if ?ukr is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is to recite Mantras of Goddess Durga. 20-22. Effects, like dawn of fortune by the beneficence of the king, happiness from friends etc., will be derived in theAntar Dasha of S?rya in the Dasha of Budh, if S?rya is in his own, or in his exaltation R??i, or in a Kendr, orTrikon, or in Dhan, or Labh, or in his exalted, or own Nav???. There will be acquisition of land, if S?rya receives a Drishti from Mangal and comforts of good food and clothes, if such a S?rya receives a Drishti from Lagn’s Lord. 23-24. Fear, or danger from thieves, fire and weapons, bilious troubles, headaches, mental agony and separation from friends etc. will be the results, if S?rya is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya from Lagn, or from the Lord of the Dasha and, if S?rya is weak and associated with ?ani, Mangal and Rahu. 25. There will be fear of premature death, if S?rya is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Worship of S?rya is the remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects. 26-27. TheYog becomes very strong for beneficial effects, if in the Antar Dasha of Candr in the Dasha of Budh Candr is in a Kendr, orTrikon from Lagn, or, if Candr is in her exaltation, or in her own R??i, associated with, or receiving a Drishti from Guru, or, if Candr is a Yog Karak herself. Then there will be marriage, birth of a son and gain of clothes and ornaments. 28-29?. In the circumstances, mentioned above, there will also be construction of a new house, availability of sweetish preparations, enjoyment of music, study of Shastras, journey to the South, gains of clothes from beyond the seas, gain of gems, like pearls etc. 30-31?. There will be physical distress, if Candr is in her debilitation, or in an enemy’s R??i. If Candr is in a Kendr, Trikon, in the 3rd, or 11th from the Lord of the Dasha, there will be at the commencement of the Antar Dasha visits to sacred shrines, patience, enthusiasm and gains of wealth from foreign countries. 32-33. Danger from the king, fire and thieves, defamation, or disgrace and loss of wealth on account of wife, destruction of agricultural lands and cattle etc. will be the results, if Candr is weak and is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 34-35. There will be physical distress, if Candr is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. There will be relief, prolongation of longevity and restoration of comforts by the beneficence of Goddess Durga, if the Mantras of the Goddess are recited in the prescribed manner and clothes are given in charity. 36-38?. Effects, like well-being and enjoyments in the family by the beneficence of the king, increase in property, recovery of a lost kingdom etc., birth of a son, satisfaction, acquisition of cattle, conveyances and agricultural lands, happiness from wife etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Mangal in the Dasha of Budh, if Mangal is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in a Kendr, orTrikon, or, if Mangal is asociated with Lagn’s Lord. 39-40?. Physical distress, mental agony, obstacles in industrial ventures, loss of wealth, gout, distress from wounds and danger from weapons and fever etc. will be the results, if Mangal be associated with, or receives a Drishti from malefics in Randhr, or in Vyaya. 41-42. There will be gain of wealth, physical felicity, birth of a son, good reputation, affectionate relations etc. with kinsmen etc., if Mangal recieves a Drishti from benefics in a Kendr, Trikon, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 43-44?. If Mangal be associated with malefics in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, there will be distress, danger from kinsmen, wrath of the king and fire, antagonism with the son, loss of position at the commencement of the Antar Dasha, enjoyments and gains of wealth in the middle portion of the Antar Dasha, danger from the king and loss of position at the end of the Antar Dasha. 45-46. There will be fear of premature death, if Mangal is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to be adopted to obtain relief from the above evil effects are Mrityunjaya Japa and giving a cow in charity. 47-49. Effects, like reverence from the king, good reputation, gain of wealth, visits to sacred shrines, performance of religious sacrifices and oblations, recognition, gain of clothes etc., are derived in the Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Dasha of Budh, if Rahu is in a Kendr, orTrikon, or, if Rahu is in Mesh, Kumbh, Kanya, orVrishabh. There will be some evil effects at the commencement of the Antar Dasha, but all will be well later. 51. There will be an opportunity to have conversation, or a meeting with the king, if Rahu is in Sahaj, Randhr, Karm, or Labh. In this position, if Rahu be associated with a benefic, there will be a visit to a new king. 52-53. Pressure of hard work, as a government functionary, loss of position, fears, imprisonment, diseases, agony to self and kinsmen, heart disease, loss of reputation and wealth, will be the results, if Rahu is associated with a malefic, or malefics in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 54-55. There will be fear of premature death, if Rahu is in Dhan, or in Ari. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects, are recitation of Mantras of Goddess Durga and Goddess Lakshmi in the prescribed manner and giving a tawnycoloured cow, or female buffalo in charity. 56-58?. Effects, like physical felicity, gain of wealth, beneficence of the king, celebration of auspicious functions, like marriage etc., at home, availability of sweetish preparations, increase in cattle wealth, attending discourses on Puranas etc., devotion to deities and the preceptor, interest in religion, charities etc., worship of Lord Shiva etc., will be derived in theAntar Dasha of Guru in the Dasha of Budh, if Guru is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in Labh, or, if Guru is in his exaltation, or in his own R??i. 59-61. Discord with king and kinsmen, danger from thieves etc., death of parents, disgrace, punishment from government, loss of wealth, danger from snakes and poison, fever, losses in agricultural production, loss of lands etc., will be the results, if Guru is in his debilitation R??i, is combust, or is in Ari, Randhr, or in Vyaya, or, if Guru is associated with, or receives a Drishti from ?ani and Mangal. 62-63?. There will be happiness from kinsmen and from one’s son, enthusiasm, increase in wealth and name and fame, giving grains etc. in charity, if Guru is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha and, if Guru is endowed with strength. 64-64?. Agony, anxiety, danger from diseases, antagonism with wife and kinsmen, wrath of the king, quarrels, loss of wealth, danger from Brahmins will be the results, if Guru is weak and, if Guru is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 65-66. There will be physical distress, if Guru is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord, or, if Guru is in Dhan, orYuvati. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are recitation of Shiva Sahasranam and giving a cow and gold in charity. 67-68?. Effects, like well-being in the family, acquisition of a kingdom, enthusiasm, increase in cattle wealth, gain of a position, visits to sacred shrines etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of ?ani in the Dasha of Budh, if ?ani is in his exaltation, his in his own R??i, or in a Kendr, orTrikon, or in Labh. 69-70?. Danger from enemies, distress to wife and children, loss of thinking power, loss of kinsmen, loss in ventures, mental agony, journeys to foreign lands and bad dreams will be the results, if ?ani is in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 71-72. There will be fear of premature death, if ?ani is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects and to regain sound health are performance of Mrityunjaya Japa and giving a black cow and female buffalo in charity. Ch. 59. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of Ketu 1-2?. Effects, like happiness from wife and children, recognition from the king, but mental agony, gain of land, village etc. will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Ketu in his own Dasha, if Ketu is in a Kendr, orTrikon, or, if Ketu is related to Dharm’s, Karm’s, or Bandhu’s Lord. 3-4. Heart disease, defamation, destruction of wealth and cattle, distress to wife and children, instability of mind etc. will we be the results, if Ketu is in his debilitation R??i and, if Ketu is in Randhr, orVyaya along with a combust Grah. 5-6. There will be danger from diseases, great distress and separation from kinsmen, if Ketu is related to Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord, or, if Ketu is in Dhan, orYuvati. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are performance of Durga Saptashati Japa and Mrityunjaya Japa. 7-9?. Effects, like beneficence from the king, good fortune, gain of clothes etc., recovery of lost kingdom, comforts of conveyances etc., visits to sacred shrines and gain of lands and villages by the beneficence of the king, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of ?ukr in the Dasha of Ketu, if ?ukr is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or, if ?ukr is associated with Karm’s Lord in a Kendr, orTrikon and there will be dawn of fortune, if in such position he is associated with Dharm’s Lord also. 10-11. Sound health, well-being in the family and gains of good food and conveyances etc. will be the results, if ?ukr is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in the 3rd, or 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 12-14. There will be quarrels without any cause, loss of wealth, distress to cattle, if ?ukr is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. If ?ukr is in his debilitation R??i, or, if ?ukr is associated with a debilitated Grah, or, if ?ukr is in Ari, or Randhr, there will be quarrels with kinsmen, headaches, eye troubles, heart disease, defamation, loss of wealth and distress to cattle and wife. 15. Physical distress and mental agony will be caused, if ?ukr is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are performance of Durga Path and giving a tawny-coloured cow, or female buffalo in charity. 16-17. The effects, like gains of wealth, beneficence of the king, performance of pious deeds and fulfillment of all ambitions, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of S?rya in the Dasha Ketu, if S?rya is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or, if S?rya is associated with, or receives a Drishti from a benefic in a Kendr,Trikon, or in Labh. 18-19?. Danger from the king, separation from parents, journeys to foreign lands, distress from thieves, snakes and poison, punishment by government, antagonism with the friends, sorrows, danger from fever etc. will be the results, if S?rya is associated with a malefic, or malefics in Randhr, or in Vyaya. 20-21. There will be physical fitness, gain of wealth, or the birth of a son, success in performance of pious deeds, headship of a small village etc., if S?rya is in a Kendr, Trikon, in the 2nd, or 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 22-24. Obstacles in availability of food, fears and loss of wealth and cattle will be the results, if S?rya is associated with evil Grahas in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha.There will be distress at the commencement of the Antar Dasha with some mitigation at its end. There will be fear of premature death, if S?rya is Dhan’s, or Yuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects and to regain comforts by the beneficence of S?rya is to give a cow and gold in charity. 25-28. Effects, like recognition from the king, enthusiasm, well-being, enjoyments, acquisition of a house, lands etc., abnormal gains of food, clothes, conveyances, cattle etc., success in business, construction of reservoirs etc. and happiness to wife and children, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Candr in the Dasha of Ketu, if Candr is in her exaltation, in her own R??i, in a Kendr, Trikon, in Labh, or in Dhan. The beneficial results will be realized fully, if Candr is waxing. 29-30. Unhappiness and mental agony, obstacles in ventures, separation from parents, losses in business, destruction of cattle etc. will be caused, if Candr is in her debilitation R??i, or in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya. 31-33. There will be the acquisition of a cow, or cows, land, agricultural lands, meeting kinsmen and the achievement of success through them, increase in cows milk and curd, if Candr is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha and, if Candr is endowed with strength. There will be auspicious results at the commencement of the Antar Dasha, cordial relations with the king in the middle portion of the Antar Dasha and danger from the king, foreign journey, or journeys to distant places at its end. 34-36. Loss of wealth, anxiety, enmity with kinsmen and distress to brother, will be the results, if Candr is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. If Candr is Dhan’s, Yuvati’s, or Randhr’s Lord, there will be fear of premature death. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above effects are recitation of Mantras of Candr and giving in charity things, connected with Candr. 37-39. Effects, like acquisition of land, village etc., increase in wealth and cattle, laying out of a new garden, gain of wealth by the beneficence of the king, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Mangal in the Dasha of Ketu, if Mangal is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, if Mangal is associated with, or, receives a Drishti from benefics. If Mangal is related to Dharm’s, or Karm’s Lord, there will definitely be gain of land and enjoyment. 40. There will be recognition from the king, great popularity and reputation and happiness from children and friends, if Mangal is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in the 3rd, or 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 41-42. There will be fear of death/disaster during a foreign journey, diabetes, unnecessary troubles, danger from thieves and the king and quarrels, if Mangal is in the 8th, 12th, or 2nd from the Lord of the Dasha. In the above circumstances amidst evil effects there will be some auspicious effects also. 43-44. High fever, danger from poison, distress to wife, mental agony and fear of premature death will be the results, if Mangal is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. By the beneficence of Mangal there will be enjoyment and gain of property, if, as a remedial measure, a bull is given in charity. 45-47. Effects, like increase of wealth and gain of wealth, grains, cattle, lands, village from a Yavan king, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Dasha of Ketu, if Rahu is in his exaltation, his own, in a friends R??i, or in a Kendr, orTrikon, or in Labh, or Sahaj, or Dhan. There will be some trouble at the commencement of the Dasha, but all will be well later. 48-50. Frequent urination, weakness in the body, cold fever, danger from thieves, intermittent fever, opprobrium, quarrels, diabetes, pain in stomach will be the results, if Rahu is associated with a malefic in Randhr, or in Vyaya. There will be distress and danger, if Rahu is in Dhan, or in Yuvati. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is Durga Saptashati Path. 51-54. Effects, like increase in wealth and grains, beneficence of the king, enthusiasm, gain of conveyances etc., celebration, like birth of a son at home, performance of pious deeds,Yagyas, conquest of the enemy and enjoyments, will be derived in theAntar Dasha of Guru in the Dasha of Ketu, if Guru is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or is associated with Lagn’s, Dharm’s, or Karm’s Lord in a Kendr, orTrikon. 55-56. Danger from thieves, snakes and wounds, destruction of wealth, separation from wife and children, physical distress etc. will be the results, if Guru is in his debilitation R??i, or in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya. Though some good effects may be felt at the commencement of the Antar Dasha, there will be only adverse results later. 57-58?. There will be gains of many varieties of garments, ornaments by the beneficence of the king, foreign journeys, taking care of kinsmen, availability of decent food, if Guru is associated with a benefic in a Kendr, Trikon, in the 3rd, or 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 59-60. Fear of premature death will be caused, if Guru is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are Mrityunjaya Japa and recitation of Shiva Sahasranama. 61-62?. Effects, like distress to oneself and one’s kinsmen, agony, increase in cattle wealth, loss of wealth, as a result of imposition of fines by government, resignation from the existing post, journeys to foreign lands and danger of thieves during travelling, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of ?ani in the Dasha of Ketu, if ?ani is deprived of strength and dignity. There will be loss of wealth and lethargy, if ?ani is in Randhr, or Vyaya. 63-65. Success in all ventures, happiness from the employer, comforts during journeys, increase in happiness and property in ones own village, audience with the king etc. will be the results, if ?ani is in aTrikon in Meen, in Tula, in his own R??i, or, if ?ani is in an auspicious Nav???, or is associated with a benefic in a Kendr, Trikon, or in Sahaj. (According to Brihat Jatak, ?ani in Tula, Meen, Dhanu, Makar and Kumbh in Lagn gives RajYog). 67-68. There will be physical distress, agony, obstacles in ventures, lethargy, defamation, death of parents, if ?ani is associated with a malefic, in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. Fear of premature death may be expected, if ?ani is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are performance of Havan with sesame seeds (Til) and giving a black cow, or female buffalo in charity. 69-71. Effects, like acquisition of a kingdom, enjoyments, charities, gain of wealth and land, birth of a son, celebration of religious functions and functions, like marriage suddenly, well-being in the family, gain of clothes, ornaments etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Budh in the Dasha of Ketu, if Budh is in a Kendr, orTrikon, or, if Budh is in his exaltation, or in his own R??i. 72. There will be association with men of learning, dawn of fortune and listening to religious discourses, if Budh is associated with Dharm’s, or Karm’s Lord. 73-74?. Antagonism with government officials, residing in other people’s houses, destruction of wealth, clothes, conveyances and cattle will be the results, if Budh is associated with ?ani, Mangal, or Rahu in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya. There will be some beneficial effects at the commencement of the Dasha, still better results in the middle, but inauspicious at the end. 75-76. There will be good health, happiness from one’s son, opulence and glory, availability of good food and clothes and abnormal profits in business, if Budh is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in the 11th from the Lord of the Dasha. 77-79. Distress, unhappiness and troubles to wife and children and danger from the king may be expected at the commencement of the Antar Dasha, if Budh is weak in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. There will, however, be visits to sacred places in the middle of the Dasha. Fear of premature death will be caused, if Budh is Dhan’s, or Yuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam. Ch. 60. Effects of the Antar Dashas in the Dasha of ?ukr 1-2?. Effects, like gain of wealth, cattle etc. through Brahmins, celebrations in connection with the birth of a son, well-being, recognition from the king, acquisition of a kingdom, will be derived in theAntar Dasha of ?ukr in his own Dasha, if ?ukr is in a Kendr, Trikon, or in Labh and, if ?ukr is endowed with strength. 3-6. Construction of a new house, availability of sweet preparations, happiness to wife and children, companionship with a friend, giving grains etc. in charity, beneficence of the king, gain of clothes, conveyances and ornaments, success in business, increase in the number of cattle, gain of garments by performing journeys in the western direction etc. will be the results, if ?ukr is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or, if ?ukr is in his exalted, or own Nav???. 7-8. There will be acquisition of a kingdom, enthusiasm, beneficence of the king, wellbeing in the family, increase in the number of wives, children and wealth etc., if ?ukr is associated with, or receives a Drishti from a benefic and is in a friendly Nav???, in Sahaj, Ari, or Labh. 9-10. Danger from thieves etc., antagonistic relations with government officials, destruction of friends and kinsmen, distress to wife and children may be expected, if ?ukr is associated with, or receives a Drishti from a malefic in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya. 1. There will be fear of death, if ?ukr is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects are Durga Path and giving a cow in charity. 2. There will be a period of agony, wrath of the king, quarrels with the coparceners etc. in the Antar Dasha of S?rya in the Dasha of ?ukr, if S?rya is in any R??i, other than his exaltation, or debilitation R??i. (This verse does not appear to be correctly worded, because S?rya does produce good effects in a position, other than exaltation, or debilitation. The position is correctly stated in the Chowkambh version of this verse) 13-15. Effects, like acquisition of a kingdom and wealth, happiness from wife and children, happiness from employer, meeting with friends, happiness from parents, marriage, name and fame, betterment of fortune, birth of a son etc., will be experienced, if S?rya is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in a Kendr,Trikon, in Dhan, or Labh, or in Kendr, Trikon, in the 2nd, or 11th from the Lord of he Dasha. 16-18. Distress, agony, distress to members of the family, harsh language, distress to father, loss of kinsmen, wrath of the king, danger at home, many diseases, destruction of agricultural production etc. will be the results, if S?rya is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, or, if S?rya is in his debilitation, or in an enemy’s R??i. 19-20. There will be evil influence of the Grahas, if S?rya is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. Worship of S?rya is the remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects. 21-22. Effects, like gain of wealth, conveyances, clothes by the beneficence of the king, happiness in the family, great opulence and glory, devotion to deities and Brahmins, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Candr in the Dasha of ?ukr, if Candr is in her exaltation, or in her own R??i, or is associated with the Lord of Dharm, benefics, or with Karm’s Lord, or, if Candr is in a Kendr, Trikon, or Labh. 23-23?. In the above circumstances there will also be association with musicians and men of learning and receiving of decorations, gain of cows, buffaloes and other cattle, abnormal profits in business, dining with brothers etc. 24-26?. Loss of wealth, fears, physical distress, agony, wrath of the king, journeys to foreign lands, or pilgrimage, distress to wife and children and separation from kinsmen will be the results, if Candr is in her debilitation R??i, is combust, or is in Ari, Randhr, or Vyaya, or, if Candr is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 27-29. There will be sovereignty over a province, or village by the beneficence of the king, clothes etc., construction of a reservoir, increase in wealth etc., if Candr is in a Kendr, orTrikon, or in the 3rd, or 11th from the Lord of the Dasha.There will be physical fitness at the commencement of the Antar Dasha and physical distress in its last portion. 30-31?. Effects, like acquisition of kingdom, property, clothes, ornaments, land and desired objects, will be derived in theAntar Dasha of Mangal in the Dasha of ?ukr, if Mangal is in a Kendr, orTrikon, or in Labh, or, if Mangal is in his exaltation R??i, or is in one of his own R??is, or is associated with the Lagn’s, Dharm’s, or Karm’s Lord. 32-34. There will be fever from cold, diseases (like fever) to parents, loss of position, quarrels, antagonism with the king and government officials, extravagant expenditure etc., if Mangal is in Ari, Randhr, orVyaya, or, if Mangal is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. 35. Physical distress, losses in profession, loss of village, land etc. will be the results, if Mangal is the Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. 36-37?. Effects, like great enjoyment, gain of wealth, visits of friends, successful journeys, gain of cattle and land etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Rahu in the Dasha of ?ukr, if Rahu is in a Kendr, orTrikon, or in Labh, or, if Rahu is in his exaltation, or in his own R??i, or is associated with, or receives a Drishti from benefics. 38-39. Enjoyments, destruction of enemy, enthusiasm and beneficence of the king will be the results, if Rahu is in Sahaj, orAri, or Karm, or Labh. Good effects will be experienced up to 5 months from the commencement of the Antar Dasha, but at the end of the Dasha there will be danger from fevers and indigestion. 40-41?. In the above circumstances, except for obstacles in ventures and journeys and worries, there will be all enjoyment, like those of a king. Journeys to foreign lands will bring success and the person will return safely to his homeland.There will also be blessings from Brahmins and auspicious results consequent to visits to holy places. 42-44. There will be inauspicious effects on oneself and one’s parents and antagonism with people, if Rahu be associated with a malefic in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. Physical distress will be caused, if Rahu is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is Mrityunjaya Japa. 45-48. Effects, like recovery of the lost kingdom, acquisition of desired grains, clothes and property etc., reverence from one’s friend and the king and gain of wealth, recognition from the king, good reputation, gain of conveyances, association with an employer and with men of learning, industriousness in the study of Shastras, birth of a son, satisfaction, visits of close friends, happiness to parents and son etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Guru in the Dasha of ?ukr, if Guru is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, or in a Kendr, orTrikon to Lagn, or to the Lord of the Dasha. 49-50. There will be danger from the king and from thieves, distress to oneself and to kinsmen, quarrels, mental agony, loss of position, going away to foreign lands and danger of many kinds of diseases, if Guru is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha and be associated with a malefic. 51. There will be physical distress, if Guru is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is Mrityunjaya Japa. 52-54. Effects, like great enjoyments, visits of friends and kinsmen, recognition from the king, birth of a daughter, visits to holy places and sacred shrines, conferment of authority by the king, will be derived in the Antar Dasha of ?ani in the Dasha of ?ukr, if ?ani is in his exaltation, in his own R??i, in a Kendr, Trikon, or in his own Nav???. 55-57. There will be lethargy and more expenditure than income, if ?ani is in his debilitation R??i. Many kinds of distresses and troubles at the commencement of the Antar Dasha, like stress to parents, wife and children, going away to foreign lands, losses in profession, destruction of cattle etc., will be the results, if ?ani is in Randhr, or Labh, orVyaya, or, if ?ani is in the 8th, 11th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha. There will be physical distress, if ?ani is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. 58-59. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above evil effects, are Havan with sesame seeds (Til), Mrityunjaya Japa, Durga Saptashati Path (by oneself, or through a Brahmin). 60-62. Effects, like dawn of fortune, birth of a son, gain of wealth through judgement of court, listening to stories from the Puranas, association with persons, competent in poetry etc., visits of close friends, happiness from employer, availability of sweetish preparations etc., will be derived in the Antar Dasha of Budh in the Dasha of ?ukr, if Budh is in a Kendr, orTrikon, or in Labh (from Lagn, or from the Lord of the Dasha), or is in his exaltation, or in his own R??i. 63-65. If Budh is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th from the Lord of Dasha, or, if Budh is weak, or is associated with a malefic, there will be agony, loss of cattle, residence in other people’s houses and losses in business. There will be some good effects at the commencement, moderate in the middle portion and distress from fever etc. at the end of the Antar Dasha. 66. There will be physical distress, if Budh is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measure to obtain relief from the above evil effects is the recitation ofVishnu Sahasranam. 67-68. Auspicious effects, like availability of sweetish preparations, abnormal gains in profession and increase in cattle wealth, will be derived from the very commencement of the Antar Dasha of Ketu in the Dasha of ?ukr, if Ketu is in his exaltation, or in his own R??i, or is related to a Yog Karak Grah, or, if Ketu is possessed of positional strength. (It is not laid down anywhere, in which Bhava Ketu does get positional strength). 69-69?. In the above circumstances there will be definite victory in war at the end of the Antar Dasha. Moderate results will be experienced in the middle portion of the Antar Dasha and sometimes there will also be the feeling of distress. 70-72. There will be danger from snakes, thieves and wounds, loss of power of thinking, headache, agony, quarrels without any cause, or reason, diabetes, excessive expenditure, antagonism with wife and children, going away to foreign land, loss in ventures, if Ketu is in the 8th, or 12th from the Lord of the Dasha, or, if Ketu is associated with a malefic. 73-74. There will be physical distress, if Ketu is Dhan’s, orYuvati’s Lord. The remedial measures to obtain relief from the above effects are Mrityunjaya Japa and giving a goat in charity. Remedial measures for appeasing ?ukr will also prove beneficial. Ch. 61. Effects of Pratyantar Dashas in Antar Dashas 1. By multiplying the years etc. of the Antar Dasha of the Grahas separately by the Dasha years of each Grah and by dividing the product by the total span of the Vimshottari Dasha, namely 120 years, we will arrive at the Pratyantar Dasha of each Grah. 1. S?rya-S?rya (Pratyantar Dasha of S?rya in theAntar Dasha of S?rya). Argument with other persons, loss of wealth, distress to wife, headache etc. The above are general effects. Such inauspicious effects will not be produced, if S?rya is in a Trikon etc., if S?rya is the Lord of an auspicious Bhava, or is in a auspicious Bhava and in a benefic Varg.All other Pratyanta effects should be judged in this manner. 3. …-Candr. Excitement, quarrels, loss of wealth, mental agony etc. 4. …-Mangal. Danger from the king and from weapons, imprisonment and distress from enemies and fire. 5. …-Rahu. Disorder of phlegm, danger from weapons, loss of wealth, destruction of a kingdom and mental agony. 6. …-Guru. Victory, increase in wealth, gains of gold, garments, conveyances etc. (7)…-?ani. Loss of wealth, distress to cattle, excitement, diseases etc. 8. …-Budh.Affectionate relations with kinsmen, availability of good food, gains of wealth, religious-mindedness, reverence from the king. 9. …-Ketu. Danger to life, loss of wealth, danger from the king, trouble with enemies. 10. …-?ukr. Moderate effects, or some gains of wealth may be expected. 11. Candr-Candr. Acquisition of land, wealth and property, reverence from the king and availability of sweetish preparations. 12. …-Mangal. Wisdom and discretion, reverence from the people, increase in wealth, enjoyments to kinsmen, but there will be danger from an enemy. 13. …-Rahu.Well-being, gain of wealth from the king and danger of death, if Rahu is yuti with a malefic. 14. …-Guru. Enjoyments, increase in dignity and glory, gain of knowledge through the preceptor, acquisition of a kingdom and acquisition of gems etc. 15. …-?ani. Bilious troubles, loss of wealth and name and fame. 16. …-Budh. Birth of a son, acquisition of a horse and other conveyances, success in education, progress, gain of white garments and grains. 17. …-Ketu. Quarrels with Brahmins, fear of premature death, loss of happiness and distress all-round. 1. …-?ukr. Gain of wealth, enjoyments, birth of a daughter, availability of sweet preparations and cordial relations with all. 19. …-S?rya. Gain of happiness, grains and garments, victories everywhere. 20. Mangal-Mangal. Danger from enemies, quarrels and fear of premature death on account of blood diseases. 21. …-Rahu. Destruction of wealth and kingdom (fall of government), unpalatable food and quarrels with the enemy. 22. …-Guru. Loss of intelligence, distress, sorrows to children, fear of premature death, negligence, quarrels and no fulfillment of any ambition. 23. …-?ani. Destruction of the employer, distress, loss of wealth, danger from enemies, anxiety, quarrels and sorrows. 24. …-Budh. Loss of intelligence, loss of wealth, fevers and loss of grains, garments and friends. 25. …-Ketu. Distress from diseases, lethargy, premature death, danger from the king and weapons. 26. …-?ukr. Distress from Chandal, sorrows, danger from the king and from weapons, dysentery and vomiting. 27. …-S?rya. Increase in landed property and wealth, satisfaction, visits of friends, happiness all-round. 28. …-Candr. Gains of white garments etc. from the southern direction, success in all ventures. 29. Rahu-Rahu. Imprisonment, disease, danger of injuries from weapons. 30. …-Guru. Reverence everywhere, acquisition of conveyances, like elephants etc., gain of wealth. 31. …-?ani. Rigorous imprisonment, loss of enjoyments, danger from enemies, affliction with rheumatism. 32. …-Budh. Gain in all ventures, abnormal gain through wife. 1. …-Ketu. Loss of intelligence, danger from enemies, obstacles, loss of wealth, quarrels, excitement. 34. …-?ukr. Danger from a Yogini, danger from the king, loss of conveyances, availability of unpalatable food, loss of a wife, sorrow in the family. 35. …-S?rya. Danger from enemies, fevers, distress to children, fear of premature death, negligence. 36. …-Candr. Excitement, quarrels, worries, loss of reputation, fear, distress to father. 37. …-Mangal. Septic boil in the anus (Bhagandhar), distress, due to a bite and pollution of blood, loss of wealth, excitement. 38. Guru-Guru. Acquisition of gold, increase in wealth etc. 39. …-?ani. Increase in lands, conveyances and grains. 40. …-Budh. Success in the educational sphere, acquisition of clothes and gems, like pearls etc., visits of friends. 41. …-Ketu. Danger from water and thieves. 42. …-?ukr. Several kinds of learning, gain of gold, clothes, ornaments, well-being and satisfaction. 43. …-S?rya. Gain from the king, friends and parents, reverence everywhere. 44. …-Candr. No distress, gain of wealth and conveyances, success in ventures. 45. …-Mangal. Danger from weapons, pain in anus, burning in the stomach, indigestion, distress from enemies. 46. …-Rahu.Antagonism with menials (Chandaldhi) and loss of wealth and distress through them. 47. ?ani-?ani. Physical distress, quarrels, danger from menials. 48. …-Budh. Loss of intelligence, quarrels, dangers, anxiety about availability of food, loss of wealth, danger from enemy. 49. …-Ketu. Imprisonment in the camp of the enemy, loss of luster, hunger, anxiety and agony. 50. …-?ukr. Fulfillment of ambitions, well-being in the family, success in ventures and gains therefrom. 51. …-S?rya. Conferment of authority by the king, quarrels in the family, fevers. 52. …-Candr. Development of intelligence, inauguration of big a venture, loss of luster, extravagant expenditure, association with many women. 53. …-Mangal. Loss of valour, distress to son, danger from fire and enemy, distress from bile and wind. 54. …-Rahu. Loss of wealth, clothes, land, going away to foreign lands, fear of death. 55. …-Guru. Inability to prevent losses, caused by women, quarrels, excitement. 56. Budh-Budh. Gain of intelligence, education, wealth, clothes etc. 57. …-Ketu. Coarse food, stomach troubles, eye troubles, distress from bilious and blood disorders. 58. …-?ukr. Gains from a northern direction, loss of cattle, acquisition of authority from government. 59. …-S?rya. Loss of splendour and distress through diseases, distress in the heart. 60. …-Candr. Marriage, gain of wealth and property, birth of a daughter, enjoyments all-round. 61. …-Mangal. Religious-mindedness, increase in wealth, danger from fire and enemies, gain of red clothes, injury from a weapon. 62. …-Rahu. Quarrels, danger from wife, or some other woman, danger from the king. 63. …-Guru. Acquisition of a kingdom, conferment of authority by the king, reverence from the king, education, intelligence. 64. …-?ani. Bilious and windy troubles, injuries to the body, loss of wealth. 65. Ketu-Ketu. Sudden disaster, going away to foreign lands, loss of wealth. 1. …-?ukr. Loss of wealth through a non-Hindu king, eye troubles, headache, loss of cattle. 67. …-S?rya. Antagonism with friends, premature death, defeat, exchange of arguments. 68. …-Candr. Loss of grains, physical distress, misunderstanding, dysentery. 69. …-Mangal. Injury from weapons, distress from fire, danger from menials and enemies. 70. …-Rahu. Danger from women and enemies, distress, caused by menials. 71. …-Guru. Loss of friends, wealth and garments, opprobrium in the house, troubles from everywhere. 72. …-?ani. Death of cattle and friends, physical distress, very meagre gain of wealth. 73. …-Budh. Loss of understanding, excitement, failure in education, dangers, failure in all ventures. 74. ?ukr-?ukr. Gains of white clothes, conveyances, gems, like pearls etc., association with beautiful damsel. 75. …-S?rya. Rheumatic fever, headache, danger from the king and enemies and meagre gain of wealth. 76. …-Candr. Birth of a daughter, gain of clothes etc. from the king, acquisition of authority. 77. …-Mangal. Blood and bile troubles, quarrels, many kinds of distresses. 78. …-Rahu. Quarrels with wife, danger, distress from the king and enemies. 79. …-Guru. Acquisition of kingdom, wealth, garments, gems, ornaments and conveyance, like elephants etc. 80. …-?ani. Acquisition of donkey, camel, goat, iron, grains, sesame seeds, physical pains. 81. …-Budh. Gains of wealth, knowledge, authority from the king, gain of money, distributed by others. 82. …-Ketu. Premature death, going away from homeland, gains of wealth at times. Ch. 62. Effects of Sukshmantar Dashas in Pratyantar Dashas 1. The Sukshmantar Dasha is arrived at by multiplying the periods of Pratyantar Dasha separately for each Grah by the Dasha years of that Grah and then by dividing the product by 120. 2. S?rya-S?rya (Sukshm Dasha of S?rya in Pratyantar Dasha of S?rya). Going away from homeland, danger of death, loss of position, losses all-round. 3. …-Candr. Devotion towards deities and Brahmins, interest in pious deeds, affectionate relations with friends. 4. …-Mangal. Indulgence in sinful deeds, distress from cruel enemies, bleeding. 5. …-Rahu. Danger from thieves, fire and poison, defeat in war, religious inclination. 6. …-Guru. Recognition by government, respected by government employees, becoming favourite of the king. 7. …-?ani. Causing trouble to respected persons and Brahmins by theft and by other bold deeds, going away from ones own place, mental agony. 8. …-Budh. Gains of fancy garments, association with a beautiful damsel, sudden success in ventures. 9. …-Ketu.Achievement of glory through wife and employees, loss of wealth, comforts from servants. 10. …-?ukr. Happiness from son, friends and wife, acquisition of many kinds of properties. 11. Candr-Candr. Gain of ornaments and land, reverence, recognition from the king, anger, glory. 12. …-Mangal. Distress, antagonism with the enemy, stomach troubles, death of father, troubles, due to imbalance of wind and bile. 13. …-Rahu. Disharmony with friends and kinsmen, going away from homeland, loss of wealth, imprisonment. 1. …-Guru. Opulence and glory with royal symbols, birth of a son, gain of property, enjoyments all-round. 15. …-?ani. Wrath of the king, loss of wealth in business dealings, danger from thieves and Brahmins. 16. …-Budh. Reverence from the king, gain of wealth, gain of conveyance from a foreign land, increase in the number of children. 17. …-Ketu. Loss in the livelihood, earned by sale etc., grains, medicines, cattle etc., danger from fire and the sun’s rays (sun-stroke). 18. …-?ukr. Marriage, gain of a kingdom, land, garments, ornaments, reputation etc. 19. …-S?rya. Troubles, losses in ventures, destruction of grains and cattle, physical distress. 20. Mangal-Mangal. Sorrows on account of loss of lands, epilepsy, imprisonment, unhappiness. 21. …-Rahu. Physical distress, danger from the people (due to unpopularity), loss of wife and children, danger from fire. 22. …-Guru. Devotion towards deities, Mantra Siddhi, reverence from the people, enjoyments. 23. …-?ani. Release from imprisonment, happiness on account of wealth, gains of clothes and servants. 24. …-Budh. Comforts of Chatr, Chamar etc. (receiving respect, as that of a king), breathing troubles. 25. …-Ketu. Indulgence in undesirable deeds at the instance of others, one always remains filthy. 26. …-?ukr. Enjoyment with women of choice, gain of wealth, food etc. 27. …-S?rya. Wrath of the king, distress through Brahmins, failure in ventures, odium in public (Loka Nindha). 28. …-Candr. Piousness, gain of wealth, devotion towards deities and Brahmins, danger from diseases. 29. Rahu-Rahu.Tendering to create turbulence by people, lack of wisdom in performance of duties, affliction of the mind. 30. …-Guru. Affliction with a chronic disease, poverty, but revered by the people and the religious-mindedness. 31. …-?ani. Gain of wealth through unfair means, wicked, or mean nature, performing other person’s duties, undesirable association. 32. …-Budh. Increase in desires for sexual acts with women, eloquence, hunger, physical distress. 33. …-Ketu. Politeness, loss of reputation, imprisonment, cold heartedness, loss of public money. 34. …-?ukr. Freedom from imprisonment, gain of position and wealth. 35. …-S?rya. Settling down in foreign lands, affliction with Gulma, even temperament, comforts of conveyances. 36. …-Candr. Gain of gems (money), wealth, education, attachment to prayers, good behavior and devotion towards deities. 37. …-Mangal. Fleeing after defeat, anger, imprisonment, indulgence in thefts and stealing. 38. Guru-Guru. Banishment of sorrows, increase in wealth, performing Havan, devotion to Lord Shiva, gains of conveyance, marked with royal symbols. 39. …-?ani. Obstacles in fasting, agony, foreign journeys, loss of wealth, antagonism with kinsmen. 40. …-Budh. Success in education, increase in intelligence, reverence from the people (popularity), gains of wealth, all sorts of enjoyments and comforts at home. 41. …-Ketu. Knowledge, glory, learning, study of Shastras, worship of Lord Shiva, Havan, devotion toward preceptor. 42. …-?ukr. Recovery from diseases, enjoyments, gain of wealth, happiness from wife and children. 1. …-S?rya. Troubles of wind and bile, stomach pains through imbalance of phlegm and Rasas. 44. …-Candr. Glory with umbrella with royal symbols, celebrations on the birth of a son, distress in eyes and stomach. 45. …-Mangal. Administration of poison by wife, imprisonment, danger from diseases, going away to foreign lands, confusion and misunderstandings. 46. …-Rahu. Danger from thieves, snakes and scorpions, diseases and distress. 47. ?ani-?ani. Loss of wealth, diseases, like rheumatism etc., destruction of the family, taking meals separately from the family, full of sorrows. 48. …-Budh. Profits in business, progress in education, increase in wealth and lands. 49. …-Ketu.Turbulence by thieves, leprosy, loss of livelihood, physical pains. 50. …-?ukr. Opulence and glory, learning the use of weapons, birth of a son, coronation, good health and fulfillment of all ambitions. 51. …-S?rya. Wrath of the king, quarrels in the family, physical distress. 52. …-Candr. Development of intelligence, inauguration of a big project, loss of luster, extravagance, happiness from wife and children. 53. …-Mangal. Loss of luster, excitement, burning in the stomach, misunderstanding, quarrels and wind and bile disorders. 54. …-Rahu. Death of parents, agony, extravagance, failure in ventures. 55. …-Guru. Acquisition of gold coins, reverence from the public, increase in wealth and grains, acquisition of Chatr with royal symbols. 56. Budh-Budh. Dawn of fortune, reverence from the king, increase in wealth and property and affectionate relations with all. 57. …-Ketu. Danger from fire, agony, distress to wife, coarse food and immoral tendencies. 58. …-?ukr. Gain of conveyances, wealth, grains, produced in water, good repute and enjoyments. 1. …-S?rya. Injuries, wrath of the king, confusion in the mind, diseases, loss of wealth, ridicule in public. 2. …-Candr. Good fortune, stability of mind, reverence from the king, gains of property, visits of friends and the preceptor. 3. …-Mangal. Danger from fire and poison, idiocy, poverty, confusion of mind, excitement. 4. …-Rahu. Danger from fire and snakes and the victory over an enemy (with difficulty), opprobrium from goblins (evil, mischievous spirit). 5. …-Guru. Construction of a house, interest in charities, comforts and enjoyments, increase in opulence, gain of wealth from the king. 6. …-?ani. Profits in business, progress in education and increase in wealth, marriage, circumambience of comprehensiveness. 7. Ketu-Ketu. Happiness from wife and children, physical troubles, poverty, begging. 8. …-?ukr. Freedom from diseases, gains of wealth, devotion towards Brahmins and the preceptor, union with members of the family. 9. …-S?rya. Quarrels, loss of land, residence in foreign lands, disaster upon friends. 10. …-Candr. Promotion in service, victory in war, good reputation in public. 11. …-Mangal. Danger of falling down from a horse etc., distress from thieves and the wicked, suffering from Gulma and headache. 12. …-Rahu. Destruction of wife, father etc., defamation, due to association with a wicked woman, vomiting, blood pollution, bilious diseases. 13. …-Guru. Antagonism with the enemy, increase in property and opulence, distress, due to losses in cattle, wealth and agricultural production. 14. …-?ani. Imaginary distress, little comfort, fasting, antagonism with wife, indulgence in falsehood. 15. …-Budh. Union and separation from many kinds of people, distress to the enemy, increase in wealth and property. 1. ?ukr-?ukr. Destruction of enemies, enjoyments, construction of temples of Lord Shiva etc. and reservoirs. 2. …-S?rya. Agony in mind and heart, confusion of mind, wanderings, both losses and gains at different times. 3. …-Candr. Sound health, increase in wealth, success in ventures through business dealings, progress in education and increase of intelligence. 4. …-Mangal. Idiocy, danger from an enemy, going away from one’s homeland, danger from diseases. 5. …-Rahu. Danger from fire and snakes, destruction of kinsmen, resignation from position (service etc.). 6. …-Guru. Success in ventures, increase in wealth and agricultural production, abnormal profits from purchase and sale business. 7. …-?ani. Distress from an enemy, sorrows, destruction of cattle, loss of persons, belonging to the Gotra of the native and elders (preceptors). 8. …-Budh. Increase in wealth with the assistance of kinsmen, gain of wealth through business, happiness from wife and children. 9. …-Ketu. Danger from fire, distress from diseases, distress in mouth, eyes and forehead, loss of accumulated wealth, mental agony. Ch. 63. Effects of Prana Dashas in Sukshma Dashas 1. If we multiply the Sukshma Dasha spans by the Dasha years of each Grah and divide the product by 120, we will get the Prana Dasha. (2)S?rya-S?rya. Interest in unnatural sexual intercourse, danger from thieves, fire and the king, physical distress. 3. …-Candr. Enjoyments, availability of good food, development of intelligence, opulence and glory, like that of a king, by the beneficence of generous people. 4. …-Mangal. Antagonism with the king with the connivance of others, dangers and great losses. 1. …-Rahu. Hunger, danger from poison, loss of wealth, as a result of punishment by the king. 6. …-Guru. Success in many educational spheres, gain of wealth, success in ventures, as a result of the exchange of visits with the king and Brahmins. 7. …-?ani. Imprisonment, death, excitement, obstacles and losses in ventures. 8. …-Budh. Feeding from the kings kitchen, acquisition of Chatr and Chamar with royal symbols, attainment of the position of a high dignitary in government. 9. …-Ketu. Loss of wealth, due to quarrels with the preceptor (elders), wife and kinsmen. 10. …-?ukr. Recognition, or reverence from the king, increase in wealth, happiness from wife and children, enjoyments from eating and drinking. 11. Candr-Candr. Happiness from wife and children, gain of wealth and clothes,Yog Sidhi. 12. …-Mangal. Consumption, leprosy, destruction of kinsmen, bleeding, creation of turbulence by friends and goblins. 13. …-Rahu. Danger from snakes, creation of turbulance by evil spirits, weakness of eyesight, confusion of mind. 14. …-Guru. Growth of religious-mindedness, forgiveness, devotion towards deities and Brahmins, good fortune, meeting with near and dear ones. 15. …-?ani. Unexpected and sudden physical distress, creation of troubles by enemies, weakness of eyesight, gain of wealth. 16. …-Budh. Gift of Chamar and Chatr by the king, acquisition of a kingdom, even-mindedness in people. 17. …-Ketu. Danger from weapons, from fire, from an enemy and from poison, stomach troubles, separation from wife and children. 18. …-?ukr. Acquisition of friends and wife, gain of wealth from foreign lands, all kinds of enjoyments. 19. …-S?rya. Brutality, increase in anger, fear of death, agony, going away from the homeland, dangers. 1. Mangal-Mangal. Quarrels with the enemy, imprisonment, bilious and blood pollution troubles. 2. …-Rahu. Separation from wife and children, distress, as a result of oppression by kinsmen, fear of death, poison. 3. …-Guru. Devotion towards deities, gain of wealth, competence in Mantra rituals. 4. …-?ani. Danger from fire, death, loss of wealth, loss of position, but good relations with kinsmen. 5. …-Budh. Gains of splendid garments, ornaments, marriage. 6. …-Ketu. Fear of falling down from a high place, eye troubles, danger from snakes, loss of reputation. 7. …-?ukr. Gain of wealth, reverence amongst people, enjoyment of many kinds of luxuries. 8. …-S?rya. Fevers, lunacy, loss of wealth, wrath of the king, poverty. 9. …-Candr. Comforts of good food and garments, distress from heat and cold. 10. Rahu-Rahu. Loss of taste in eating, danger from poison, loss of wealth through rashness. 11. …-Guru. Physical well-being, fearlessness, gain of conveyance and quarrels with menials. 12. …-?ani. Danger from fire, diseases, loss of wealth through menials, imprisonment. 13. …-Budh. Devotion towards the preceptor and increase of wealth through his beneficence, good qualities and well cultured. 14. …-Ketu.Antagonism with wife and children, going away from home, loss of wealth through rashness. 15. …-?ukr. Acquisition of Chatr, Chamar, conveyances etc., success in all ventures, worship of Lord Shiva, construction of a house. 16. …-S?rya. Affliction with piles, wrath of the king, loss of cattle. 1. …-Candr. Development of mental powers and intelligence, popularity, visits of preceptors, danger of committing sins. 2. …-Mangal. Dangers from menials and fire, loss of position, disaster, filthiness and meanness. 3. Guru-Guru. Happiness, increase in wealth, performance of Havan, worship of Lord Shiva, acquisition of Chatr and conveyances. 4. …-?ani. Failure in fasting, unhappiness, going away to foreign lands, loss of wealth, antagonism with kinsmen. 5. …-Budh. Progress in education, increase in intelligence, happiness to wife and children, popularity, gain of wealth. 6. …-Ketu. Opulence and glory, learnedness, gain of knowledge of Shastras, worship of Lord Shiva, performance of Havan, devotion towards preceptor. 7. …-?ukr. Freedom from diseases, enjoyments, increase in wealth, happiness from wife and children. 8. …-S?rya. Disorders of wind, bile and phlegm, pains, due to disorders of juices in the body. 9. …-Candr.Acquisition of Chatr with royal symbol, opulence and glory, increase in children, eye and stomach troubles. 10. …-Mangal. Danger of administration of poison by wife, imprisonment, foreign journeys, confusion of mind. 11. …-Rahu. Distress from diseases, troubles from thieves, danger from snakes, scorpions etc. 12. ?ani-?ani: Loss of luster, due to fevers, leprosy, stomach troubles, danger of death from fire. 13. …-Budh. Gain of wealth and grains, profits in business, reverence, devotion towards deities and Brahmins. 14. …-Ketu. Death-like distress, creation of turbulence by evil spirits, insult from a woman, other than one’s wife. 1. …-?ukr. Enjoyments through wealth, son and beneficence of the king, performance of Havanas, marriage etc. 2. …-S?rya. Troubles in the eyes and forehead, danger from snakes and enemies, loss of wealth, distress. 3. …-Candr. Sound health, birth of a son, relief, thriving strength, devotion towards deities and Brahmins. 4. …-Mangal. Affliction with Gulma, danger from enemy, danger of death during hunting, danger from snakes, from fire and from poison. 5. …-Rahu. Going away from the homeland, danger from the king, bewitchment, taking of poison, troubles from wind and bile. 6. …-Guru. Attainment of the position of a Commander in the Army, gain of land, association with ascetics, reverence from the king. 7. Budh-Budh. Increase in enjoyments, wealth and religious-mindedness, even-mindedness in all living beings. 8. …-Ketu. Danger from thieves, from fire and from poison, death-like suffering. 9. …-?ukr. Supremacy over others, increase in wealth, reputation and religious-mindedness, devotion to Lord Shiva, happiness from son. 10. …-S?rya. Agony, fevers, lunacy, affectionate relations with wife and kinsmen, receipt of stolen property. 11. …-Candr. Happiness from wife, birth of a daughter, gain of wealth and enjoyments all-round. 12. …-Mangal. Tendency to indulge in nefarious activities, pain in eyes, teeth and stomach, piles, danger from death. 13. …-Rahu. Gain of clothes, ornaments and wealth, separation from one’s own people, antagonism with Brahmins, delirium. 14. …-Guru. Sublimately, progress in education, increase in wealth and good qualities, profits in business. 64. …-?ani. Danger of death from thieves, poverty, beggary. 65. Ketu-Ketu. Danger of fall from a conveyance, quarrels with the enemy, committing a murder inadvertently. 66. …-?ukr. Gain of land and conveyance, happiness, destruction of enemy, increase in cattle wealth. 67. …-S?rya. Danger from fire and enemy, loss of wealth, mental agony, death-like suffering. 68. …-Candr. Devotion towards deities and Brahmin, journeys to distant places, gain of wealth and happiness, eye and ear troubles. 69. …-Mangal. Bilious troubles, enlargement of veins, delirium, antagonism with kinsmen. 70. …-Rahu.Antagonism with son and wife, going away from home, loss in ventures, due to rashness. 71. …-Guru. Injuries from weapons, wounds, heart disease, separation from wife and children. 72. …-?ani. Confusion of mind, tendencies towards nefarious deeds, imprisonment on account of addictions (in drugs etc.), distress. 73. …-Budh. Enjoyments of bed, perfumery, ornaments and sandal, good food and availability of all kinds of comforts. 74. ?ukr-?ukr. Learning, devotion to deities, satisfaction, gain of wealth, increase in the number of children. 75. …-S?rya. Good reputation in public, loss of happiness in respect of children, heat troubles. 76. …-Candr. Devotion towards deities, competence, relief by the application of Mantras, increase in wealth and fortune. 77. …-Mangal. Fevers, wounds, ringworms, itches, devotion towards deities and Brahmins. 1. …-Rahu. Distress from an enemy, eye and stomach troubles, antagonism with friends. 79. …-Guru. Good longevity, sound health, happiness from wealth, wife and children, acquisition of Chatr and conveyances. 80. …-?ani. Danger from the king, loss of happiness, critical disease, controversy with menials. 81. …-Budh. Satisfaction, reverence from the king, gains of land and wealth from many directions, increase in enthusiasm. 82. …-Ketu. Loss of life, wealth and reputation, only some money is left for charities and sustenance. Ch. 64. Effects ofAntar Dashas in the Kala Chakr 1. Maharishi Parashar said. Now I am going to describe to you the effects ofAntar Dashas in the Kala Chakr Dasha, as related by Lord Shiva to the Goddess Parvati. 2. Dasha of Mesh A??. There will be wounds and fever in the Antar Dasha of Mangal in the Dasha of MeshA??. In the same Dasha and Antar Dasha of the R??is, owned by Budh, ?ukr, Candr and Guru, all kinds of happiness will be enjoyed. Danger from an enemy will be experienced in the Antar Dasha of S?rya. 3-5. Dasha ofVrishabh A??. Effects, like quarrels and diseases, will be experienced in Antar Dasha of ?ani. There will be gains of education and physical felicity in the Antar Dasha of Guru, going away from home, death, or distress from fevers in the Antar Dasha of Mangal and gains of garments, happy association with women in the Antar Dashas of the R??is, owned by ?ukr and Budh. Danger from the king and violent animals may be expected in the Antar Dasha of R??i, owned by S?rya. 6-10. Dasha of Mithun A??. The effects in the Antar Dashas of the R??is concerned will be, as follows. ?ukr - gain of wealth and garments. Mangal - death of parents, danger, fever, wounds and travels to distant places. Guru - increase in intelligence, success in education, opulence and glory, popularity and affection towards others. ?ani - foreign journeys, diseases, fear of death, loss of wealth and kinsmen. Budh - success in education, gains of garments etc., happiness from wife and children and reverence from all quarters. 11-16. Dasha of Kark A??. The effects in the variousAntar Dashas of the R??is concerned will be, as follows. Candr - happiness from wife and children, gain of wealth and reverence from the public. S?rya - danger from enemies, animals and the royal family, mental agony and fear of diseases. Budh and ?ukr - happiness from wife, children and friends, increase in wealth, popularity and name and fame. Mangal - danger from poison, weapons and diseases, like fever. Guru - gains of wealth, physical felicity, honours from the king. ?ani - rheumatism, danger from snakes and scorpions and distress of all kinds. 17-21. Dasha of SimhA??. … Mangal - diseases of the mouth, bilious fever and danger from weapon. Budh and ?ukr - gain of clothes, happiness from wife and children. Candr - danger from fall from some height, meagre gains of wealth, foreign journeys. S?rya danger from enemies, fevers, loss of wisdom, fear of death. Guru - gains of wealth and grains, beneficence of the king and Brahmins, progress in education. 22-26. Dasha of Kanya A??. … ?ani - many kinds of troubles, travels to distant places, fevers, distress from hunger. Guru - gains of wealth through the beneficence of the king, arrival of friends and kinsmen and success in education. Mangal - bilious fever, travels to distant places, danger from fire and from weapons. Budh, ?ukr and Candr - gains of wealth through sons and employees, many enjoyments. S?rya - travel to distant lands, danger from diseases, quarrels with kinsmen, danger of assaults by weapons. 27-31. Dasha ofTula A??. … ?ukr - wisdom, comforts, happiness from wife and children and from wealth, garments etc. Mangal - distress to father, enmity with friends, danger from disease of forehead, fevers, poison, weapons etc. Guru - gain of wealth, acquisition of a kingdom, performance of religious rites, honours from the king and happiness all-round. ?ani - travels to distant places, critical diseases, loss in the agricultural sphere, danger from enemies. Budh - birth of a son, gain of wealth, happiness from one’s wife, joy, dawn of fortune. 32-33. Dasha ofVrischik A??. The following effects will be experienced in the Antar Dashas of the R??is concerned. Candr, Budh and ?ukr - gain of wealth and grains in different ways, freedom from diseases, enjoyments of many kinds. S?rya - danger from enemies, loss of wealth, distress to father, danger from wild and violent animals. Mangal - troubles from wind and bile, wounds, danger from fire and from weapons. Guru - gains of wealth, grains,. and gems, devotion towards deities and Brahmins, beneficence of the king. ?ani - loss of wealth, separation from kinsmen, mental anxiety, danger from enemies, diseases. 34-40. Dasha of Dhanu A??. The following effects will be derived in the variousAntar Dashas of the R??is, owned by… Mangal - heart burn, fevers, cold, diseases of the mouth, many kinds of troubles. ?ukr, Budh and Candr - increase in wealth and property and fortune, progress in education, destruction of enemies, happiness from the king. S?rya - loss of wife and wealth, quarrels, danger from the king, travels to distant lands. Guru - charity, self-mortifications, honours from the king, increase in religious-mindedness, happiness from wife, gain of wealth. 41-44. Dasha of MakarA??. The following effects will be experienced in the various Antar Dashas of the R??is, owned by… ?ani - wrath of Brahmins, deities and the king, loss of kinsmen, abandonment of the homeland. ?ukr, Budh, Candr and Guru - devotion towards deities, self-mortification, honours from the government. Mangal - disease of the forehead, assaults on hands and feet, danger from dysentery, blood pollution and bilious troubles. ?ani - loss of father and kinsmen, fevers, danger from the king and the enemies. 45-49. Dasha of KumbhA??. … ?ukr - many kinds of educational attainments, gains of property, happiness from wife and children, sound health and increase in wealth. Mangal - fevers, danger from fire and from enemies, distress from enemies and mental agony. ?ani - danger of troubles from wind, bile and phlegm, quarrels, foreign journey, danger of suffering from tuberculosis. Guru - freedom from ill health, happiness, honours from the king and joy. Budh - happiness from wife, children and wealth, joy, increase in good fortune. 50-55. Dasha of MeenA??. … Candr - increase in wisdom and educational attainments, happiness from wife, freedom from disease, association with friends, joy and happiness. S?rya - quarrels with kinsmen, danger from thieves, mental agony, loss of position. Budh and ?ukr - victory in war, birth of a son, gains of land and cattle, increase in wealth. Mangal - bilious troubles, dissension with members of the family, danger from enemies. Guru - gain of wealth and grains, happiness from wife, honours from the king, name and fame. ?ani - loss of wealth, mental agony, abandonment of the homeland on account of associations with prostitutes. 56-58. Maharishi Parashar said to Maitreya. O Brahmin!The effects ofAntar Dashas in the Kala Chakr, which have been described above, are based on Savya Chakr. The effects ofAntar Dashas in the Dashas of the R??is in the Apsavya Chakr have to be assessed, after taking into account the benefic and malefic natures of the Lords of the R??is. People have to enjoy the good, or suffer the bad results, according to their good, or bad actions in the previous births. Everybody suffers, or enjoys accordingly. The peculiarity in this respect is, that inauspicious results have been ascribed to malefics. But, if during the Antar Dasha the Grah concerned is a friend of the Lord of the Dasha, the results of the Antar Dasha will be favourable. If the Grah concerned is a benefic, but an enemy of the Lord of the Dasha, hisAntar Dasha effects will not prove favourable. This is how the Antar Dasha effects have to be analyzed and conclusions arrived at. Ch. 65. Effects of Dashas of R??is in the A??as of the Various R??is 1-3. The following will be the effects in the Dashas of R??is in Mesh A??. Mesh distress from diseases, caused by blood pollution, Vrishabh - increase in grain production, Mithun - dawn of knowledge (Gyanodaya), Kark - increase in wealth, Simh - danger from enemies, Kanya - happiness from wife, Tula - ministership, Vrischik danger of death, Dhanu - gains of wealth. 4-5?. … VrishabhA??. Makar - tendency to indulge in sinful actions, Kumbh - profits in business, Meen - success in all ventures,Vrischik - danger from fire, Tula - honours from the king, Kanya - danger from enemies, Kark - distress to wife, Simh -eye troubles, Mithun - danger from poison. 6-8. … MithunA??. Vrishabh - gains of wealth, Mesh - fever, Meen - affectionate relations with maternal uncle, Kumbh - increase in enemies, Makar - danger from thieves, Dhanu - progress in education, Mesh - assaults from enemies, Vrishabh quarrels, Mithun - happiness. 9-10?. … Kark A??. Kark - enjoyments, Simh - danger from the king, Kanya happiness from kinsmen,Tula - good reputation, Vrischik - distress from father, Dhanu gain of knowledge and wealth, Makar - disgrace in public, Kumbh - loss in business, Meen - travels to distant lands. 11-13. … in SimhA??. Vrischik - quarrels, distress, Tula - gain of wealth, happiness, Kanya - increase in wealth and grains, Kark - danger from animals, Simh - both happiness and sorrows, Mithun - increase in enemies,Vrishabh - gain of property, happiness, Mesh - distress, Meen - long journey. 14-15?. … Kanya A??. Kumbh - gain of wealth, Makar - increase in wealth, Dhanu happiness from brothers, Mesh - happiness from mother,Vrishabh - happiness from sons, Mithun - danger from enemies, Kark - affectionate relation with wife, Simh increase in ill health, Kanya - birth of a son. 16-18. … TulaA??. Tula - gain of wealth, Vrischik - happiness from brothers, Dhanu happiness from brothers and uncles, Makar - distress to mother, Kumbh - profits in business, Meen - gain of property, happiness,Vrischik - distress to wife, Tula -danger from water, Kanya - increase in property and happiness. 19-20?. … VrischikA??. Kark - loss of wealth, Simh - danger from government, Mithun - gain of lands,Vrishabh - increase in wealth, Mesh - distress on account of blood pollution, Meen - happiness, Kumbh - profits in business, Makar - loss of wealth, Dhanu - gain of property, happiness. 21-23. … DhanuA??. Mesh - gain of wealth, Vrishabh - gain of lands, Mithun - success in all ventures, Kark - gain of property, happiness, Simh - all comforts, Kanya - quarrels, Tula - profits in business, Vrischik - danger from diseases, Dhanu - happiness to sons. 24-25?. … MakarA??. Makar - birth of a son, Kumbh - increase in wealth, Meen well-being,Vrischik - danger from animals,Tula - gain of wealth, Kanya - danger from enemies, Kark - gain of wealth, Simh - danger from enemies, Mithun - danger from poison. 26-28. … Kumbh A??. Vrishabh - increase in wealth, Mesh - eye troubles, Meen travels to distant lands, Kumbh - increase in wealth, Makar - success in all ventures, Dhanu - increase in knowledge and learning, Mesh - loss of happiness,Vrishabh danger of death, Mithun - gains of property, happiness. 29-31. … Meen A??. Kark - increase in wealth, Simh - assistance from the king, Kanya increase in wealth and grains,Tula - profits in business,Vrischik - distress from fever, Dhanu - increase in knowledge and wealth, Makar - antagonism with wife, Kumbh danger from water, Meen - all kinds of enjoyments. 32. There is no doubt, that observance of remedial measures in the form of prescribed MaharishiYagyas destroys the evil effects of the inauspicious Dashas and yield happiness. Ch. 66. AshtakaVarg 1-4. Maitreya said: “OVenerable Sage!You have described many kinds of effects, relating to the Grahas and Bhavas, after incorporating the views of many sages and Acharyas, but it is not possible to say with certainty, if a particular effect is quite correct, after considering the contradictions in the effects by the movements of the various Grahas. As because of sinful deeds, committed by people in Kaliyuga, their minds have become blunt, be kind enough to describe a method, which would enable even the shallow minded persons to ascertain their happiness and sorrows and determine their longevity on the basis of the positions of the Grahas in transit.” 5-6. The sage replied: “O Brahmin!You have put a very intelligent question. I will now describe the Shastra for the benefit of all, the Shastra, in which there will be no contradictions in judging the effects of happiness and sorrows and for determination of the longevity. You now listen to me carefully. 7-11. If the 12 Bhavas, including Lagn, are occupied by, or aspected by benefic Grahas, they yield auspicious results, according to their characteristics, but this happens, where the Grahas concerned are in their exaltation R??i, own R??i, or posited in a benefic Bhava.There will be no good effects, if such Grahas are in depression, or posited in an inauspicious Bhava. Similarly the Bhavas, associated with, or aspected by malefics in depression, or posited in malefic Bhavas, yield adverse results, according to their characteristics. If such Grahas be in their exaltation R??i, the effects will not be adverse. This is how the general effects have been described by the Daivajnas. I have only repeated those effects. The main purposes of this Jyotish Shastra are to determine the longevity and joys and sorrows of the people, but because the movements of the Grahas are so subtle, even sages, like Vashista and Brihaspati, have not been able to be quite definite in this respect. Then how can a common man, particularly in Kaliyuga, do so. 12. There are two divisions, or parts of the Jyotish Shastra, namely general and particular. I have already dealt with the general part. I now come to the other part, which deals with this subject in particular. 13-15. As the effects of the twelve Bhavas are judged from Lagn and Candr, effects of the twelve Bhavas and the various Grahas are judged in the same manner. Therefore the inauspicious places from the seven Grahas, named, as Karan, beginning from S?rya and Lagn (total 8), should be marked by dots (Bindus) and auspicious places, named, as Sthan, by small vertical lines (Rekhas) and on the basis of their assessment should the judgment of the horoscope and predictions be made.” Notes. The above arrangement is known, asAshtakaVarg.The meaning ofAshtakaVarg is literally the group of eight things. In other words it is the combination of the good and bad positions of a Grah with reference to the seven Grahas and Lagn. So it is the combination of the benefic and malefic marks (the Rekhas and the Bindus) in a planet’s chart with reference to the position of the eight Grahas (here Lagn is to be treated, as a Grah). 16. Five Grahas in 1st, 2nd, 8th, 3rd and the 12th Bhavas from S?rya are Karanprad (dot significators). Similarly four Grahas in the 7th and 4th, three Grahas in the 6th and 9th, six Grahas in the 5th, 2 Grahas in the 10th and one Grah in the 11th are dot significators. 17-19. Thus Lagn, Candr, Guru, ?ukr and Budh in the 1st, 2nd and 8th from S?rya; S?rya, Mangal, ?ani, Candr and Guru in the 12th; Budh, Candr, ?ukr, Guru in the 4th; Lagn, Candr, ?ukr in the 9th; S?rya, ?ani and Mangal in the 6th; Lagn, Budh, Guru and Candr in the 7th; ?ukr in the 11th; S?rya, ?ani, ?ukr, Guru and Mangal in the 3rd; Guru and ?ukr in the 10th; S?rya, ?ani, Candr, Lagn Mangal and ?ukr in the 5th are Karanprad, or dot indicators. 20-22. In Candr’sAshtakaVarg 6 Grahas in the 9th and the 2nd, 5 Grahas in the 4th, 8th and the 1st, one Grah in the 10th and the 3rd, 4 Grahas in the 5th, 3 Grahas in the 6th and the 7th and 1st, eight in the 12th are Karanprad. Thus Lagn, S?rya, Mangal, ?ani and ?ukr, these five in the 1st; Lagn, Budh, S?rya, Candr, ?ani and ?ukr, these 6 in the 2nd; Guru in the 3rd; S?rya, ?ani, Candr, Lagn and Mangal, these 5 in the 4th; ?ukr, Budh, Guru, these 3 in the 6th; Mangal, Lagn and ?ani, these 3 in the 7th; Mangal, Lagn, ?ani, ?ukr and Candr, these five in the 8th; Lagn, S?rya, Mangal, ?ani, Budh and Guru, these 6 in the 9th; ?ani only in the 10th; none in the 11th; all the eight in the 12th from their own places are Karanprad. These Grahas in the other Bhavas are Rekhaprad (line significators). 23-27. In the AshtakaVarg of Mangal 6 Grahas in the 12th, 4th and 7th, 5 Grahas in the 5th, 6 Grahas in the 2nd, 7 Grahas in the 9th, 5 Grahas in the 1st and 8th, 4 Grahas in the 3rd, 3 Grahas in the 10th and 2 Grahas in the 6th are Karanprad. In the 11th no Grah is Karanprad. In other words all the Grahas in the 11th from their own places are Rekhaprad. Thus S?rya, Candr, Budh, Guru and ?ukr, these five in the 1st; Lagn, S?rya, Candr, Budh, Guru and ?ani, these 6 in the 2nd; ?ukr, Mangal, Guru and ?ani, these 4 in the 3rd; S?rya, Candr, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and Lagn, these 6 in the 4th; Candr, Mangal, Guru, ?ukr and Lagn, these 5 in the 5th; Mangal and ?ani, these 2 in the 6th; Budh, Candr, S?rya, ?ukr, Guru and Lagn, these 6 in the 7th; Budh, Candr, S?rya, Lagn and Guru, these five in the 8th; S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and Lagn, these 7 in the 9th; ?ukr, Candr and Budh, these 3 in the 10th; none in the 11th; S?rya, ?ani, Budh, Candr, Lagn and Mangal, these 6 in the 12th from their own places are Karanprad. 28-30. In the AshtakaVarg of Budh 3 Grahas in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 10th, 6th and 9th, 2 Grahas in the 8th, 6 Grahas in the 3rd and the 7th, none in the 11th, 5 Grahas in the 5th and 12th are Karanprad.Thus S?rya, Candr and Guru, these 3 in the 1st; Guru, S?rya and Budh, these 3 in the 2nd; Lagn, S?rya, Mangal, ?ani, Candr and Guru, these 6 in the 3rd; Budh, S?rya and Guru, these 3 in the 4th; Guru, Mangal, Candr, ?ani and Lagn, these 5 in the 5th; ?ukr, ?ani and Mangal, these 3 in the 6th; Budh, Candr, Lagn, S?rya, ?ukr and Guru, these 6 in the 7th; Budh and S?rya, these 2 in the 8th; Guru, Candr and Lagn, these 3 in the 9th; S?rya, Guru and ?ukr, these 3 in the 10th; none in the 11th; Lagn, Candr, Mangal, ?ani and ?ukr these 5 in the 12th from their own places are Karanprad. 31-34. In the AshtakaVarg of Guru one Grah in the 2nd and 11th, 2 Grahas in the 10th, 7 Grahas in the 12th, 4 Grahas in the 6th, 5 Grahas in the 8th and 3rd, 3 Grahas in the remaining Bhavas are Karanprad. Thus ?ukr, Candr and ?ani, these 3 in the 1st; ?ani in the 2nd and 11th; Lagn, Mangal, Candr, Budh and ?ukr, these 5 in the 3rd; S?rya, Guru and Mangal, these 3 in the 5th; ?ukr, ?ani and Candr, these 3 in the 4th; Budh, ?ukr and ?ani, these 3 in the 7th; Guru, Mangal, S?rya and Candr, these 4 in the 6th; all except ?ani, these 7 in the 12th; Candr and ?ani, these 2 in the 10th; ?ani, Mangal and Guru, these 3 in the 9th; Lagn, ?ani, ?ukr, Candr and Budh, these 5 in the 8th from their own places are Karanprad. 35-38. In the AshtakaVarg of ?ukr 2 Grahas in the 5th, 8th and 3rd, 5 Grahas in the 1st, 2nd, 12th, 10th, 8 Grahas in the 7th, 6 Grahas in the 6th, one in the 9th, 3 in the 4th, none in the 11th are Karanpradas. Thus S?rya, Mangal, Budh, Guru and ?ani, these 5 in the 1st and the 2nd; all the 8 Grahas in the 7th; Guru and S?rya, these 2 in the 3rd; S?rya and Mangal, these 2 in the 5th; S?rya in 9th; S?rya, Budh and Guru, these 3 in the 4th; Mangal and Budh, these 2 in the 8th; ?ukr, S?rya, Candr, ?ani, Lagn and Guru, these 6 in the 6th; none in the 11th; Lagn, ?ani, Budh, ?ukr and Guru, these 5 in the 12th; Lagn, Mangal, Budh, Candr, S?rya, these 5 in the 10th from their own places are Karanpradas. 39-42. In the AshtakaVarg of ?ani 7 Grahas in the 2nd, 7th, 9th, 6 Grahas in the 8th, Lagn and 4th, 4 Grahas in the 10th, 3rd and 12th, one Grah in the 6th, 5 Grahas in the 5th, none in the 11th are Karanpradas. Thus Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani, these 6 in the 4th and the 1st; Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, ?ani and Lagn, these 7 in the 2nd and the 7th; S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Guru, ?ukr, ?ani and Lagn, these 7 in the 9th; Candr, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani, these 4 in the 10th; Guru, S?rya, Budh and ?ukr, these 4 in the 3rd; S?rya in the 6th; Lagn, Candr, ?ani, S?rya, these 4 in the 12th; ?ukr, S?rya, Candr, Budh and Lagn, these 5 in the 5th; Candr, Mangal, Guru, ?ukr, ?ani and Lagn, these 6 in the 8th; none in the 11th from their own places are Karanpradas. The remaining places are Rekhapradas and are auspicious. 43-45. The sage said. Now I will describe the auspicious Bhavas for the benefit of the Acharyas. In the AshtakaVarg of S?rya: ?ani, Mangal and S?rya in the 2nd, 8th and 1st; Guru and Budh in the 5th; Budh, Candr and Lagn in the 3rd; Lagn, S?rya, ?ani and Mangal in the 4th; Lagn, S?rya, ?ani, Mangal, Budh and Candr in the 10th; S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ani and Lagn in the 11th; Lagn, ?ukr and Budh in the 12th; Lagn, ?ukr, Budh, Guru and Candr in the 6th; S?rya, Mangal, ?ani and ?ukr in the 7th; S?rya, Mangal, ?ani, Budh and Guru in the 9th from their own places are Rekhapradas. 46-48. In the AshtakaVarg of Candr: Budh, Candr and Guru in the 1st; Guru and Mangal in the 2nd; Budh, S?rya, Candr, Mangal, ?ani, ?ukr and Lagn in the 3rd; Guru, ?ukr and Budh in the 4th; Mangal, Budh, ?ukr and ?ani in the 5th; S?rya, Candr, Mangal, ?ani and Lagn in the 6th; S?rya, Candr, Guru, Budh and ?ukr in the 7th; S?rya, Budh and Guru in the 8th; ?ukr and Candr in the 9th; S?rya, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, Candr, Lagn and Mangal in the 10th and all the 8 Grahas in the 11th from their own places are Rekhapradas. No Grah is Rekhaprad in the 12th. 49-50. In the AshtakaVarg of Mangal: Lagn, ?ani and Mangal in the 1st; Mangal in the 2nd; Lagn, Budh, Candr and S?rya in the 3rd; ?ani and Mangal in the 4th; Budh and S?rya in the 5th; Budh, Candr, Guru, S?rya, Lagn and ?ukr in the 6th; ?ani and Mangal in the 7th; ?ani, Mangal and ?ukr in the 8th; ?ani in the 9th; Mangal, S?rya, Guru, ?ani and Lagn in 10th; all in the 11th and Guru and ?ukr in the 12th from their own places are Rekhapradas. 51-52. In the AshtakaVarg of Budh: Lagn, ?ani, Mangal, ?ukr and Budh in the 1st; Lagn, Mangal, Candr, ?ukr and ?ani in the 2nd; ?ukr and Budh in the 3rd; Lagn, Candr, ?ani, ?ukr and Mangal in the 4th; Budh, ?ani and ?ukr in the 5th; Guru, Budh, S?rya, Candr and Lagn in the 6th; Mangal and ?ani in the 7th; Mangal, ?ani, Lagn, Candr, ?ukr and Guru in the 8th; ?ani, Mangal, S?rya, Budh and ?ukr in the 9th; Lagn, ?ani, Mangal, Budh and Candr in the 10th; all in the 11th and Guru, Budh and S?rya in the 12th from their own places are Rekhapradas. 53-55. In the AshtakaVarg of Guru: Lagn, Mangal, S?rya and Budh in the 1st and 4th; Guru, Lagn, Mangal, S?rya, Budh, Candr and ?ukr in the 2nd; ?ani, Guru and S?rya in the 3rd; ?ukr, Candr, Lagn, Budh and ?ani in the 5th; ?ukr, Lagn, Budh and ?ani in the 6th; Lagn, Mangal, Guru, S?rya and Candr in the 7th; Guru, S?rya and Mangal in the 8th; ?ukr, S?rya, Lagn, Candr and Budh in the 9th; Guru, Budh, Mangal, S?rya, ?ukr and Lagn in the 10th; all except ?ani in the 11th and ?ani in the 12th from their own places are Rekhapradas. 56-58. In the AshtakaVarg of ?ukr: Lagn, ?ukr and Candr in the 1st; Lagn, ?ukr and Candr in the 2nd; Lagn, ?ukr, Candr, Budh, ?ani and Mangal in the 3rd; Lagn, ?ukr, Candr, ?ani and Mangal in the 4th; Lagn, Budh, Candr, Guru, ?ani and ?ukr in the 5th; Budh and Mangal in the 6th; none in the 7th; ?ukr, S?rya, Candr, Guru, Lagn and ?ani in the 8th; all except S?rya in the 9th; ?ukr, Guru and ?ani in the 10th; all in the 11th; Mangal, Candr and S?rya in the 12th from their own places are Rekhapradas. 59-60. In the AshtakaVarg of ?ani: S?rya and Lagn in the 1st; S?rya in the 2nd; Lagn, Candr, Mangal and ?ani in the 3rd; Lagn and S?rya in the 4th; Guru, ?ani and Mangal in the 5th; all except S?rya in the 6th; S?rya in the 7th; S?rya and Budh in the 8th; Budh in the 9th; S?rya, Mangal, Lagn and Budh in the 10th; all in the 11th; Mangal, Budh, Guru and ?ukr in the 12th from their own places are Rekhapradas. 61-64. In the AshtakaVarg of Lagn 3 Grahas in the 1st and 4th, 2 Grahas in the 3rd, 5 Grahas in the 2nd, 6 Grahas in the 5th, 8th, 9th and 12th, one Grah in the 10th, 11th and 6th and all except Guru in the 7th are Karanpradas. Thus Lagn, S?rya and Candr in the 1st; Lagn, Mangal, Candr, S?rya and ?ani in the 2nd; Guru and Budh in the 3rd; Lagn, Candr, Mangal, Budh, ?ani and S?rya in the 5th; Lagn, Candr and Mangal in the 4th; ?ukr in the 6th; all except Guru in the 7th; Lagn, S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Guru and ?ani in the 8th; Lagn, S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh and ?ani in the 9th; ?ukr in the 10th and 11th; Lagn, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani in the 12th from their own places are Karanpradas. 65-68. In the AshtakaVarg of Lagn: ?ani, Budh, ?ukr, Guru and Mangal in the 1st; Budh, Guru and ?ukr in the 2nd; Lagn, S?rya, Candr, Mangal, ?ukr and ?ani in 3rd; S?rya, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani in the 4th; Guru and ?ukr in the 5th; all except ?ukr in the 6th; Guru in the 7th; Budh and ?ukr in the 8th; Guru and ?ukr in the 9th; all except ?ukr in the 10th; all except ?ukr in the 11th and S?rya and Candr in the 12th from their own places are Rekhapradas. 69. In the charts ofAshtakaVarg Karan is signified by a Bindu, or dot (0) and Sthan by a Rekhapradas, or line (1). Karan is inauspicious, while Sthan is auspicious. 70-72. To identify the auspicious and inauspicious Bhavas in the AshtakaVarg a chart should be prepared with 14 horizontal lines and ten vertical lines. The form of the chart so prepared will consist of 117 apartments. In this chart in the first line incorporates the names of the seven Grahas and Lagn. In the first column write the numbers of all the 12 Bhavas. After this mark dots under the Grah and against the Karanprad Bhavas. By doing so the Karanprad Bhavas of all the 8 Grahas, including Lagn, will become known clearly and whenever the AshtakaVarg Grah will pass in transit the dot-marked Bhavas, he will yield unfavourable results. In his transit to other Bhavas he would give favourable effects.The following table shows the dots in the AshtakaVarg of S?rya. Ch. 67. Trikon Shodhana in the AshtakaVarg 1-2. The sage said. O Brahmin!After preparing the AshtakaVarg of all the Grahas, including Lagn, Trikon Shodhana has to be done for each R??i.ATrikon is made of three R??is equidistant from each other. Thus Mesh, Simh and Dhanu, Vrishabh, Kanya and Makar, Mithun, Tul and Kumbh, Kark, Vrischik and Meen form theTrikonas of the R??is. 3-5. TheTrikon Shodhana (rectification) should be done by writing the Rekhas in the AshtakaVargas of S?rya etc. under the R??is Mesh etc. Amongst the Trikon R??is the R??i, which has lesser number of Rekhas, should be allotted Rekhas, arrived at by deducting its number of Rekhas from the greater number of Rekhas of the threeTrikon R??is. No Trikon Shodhana is necessary, if any of the Trikon R??is has no Rekha. Shodhana should be done, if all the three of them have equal number of Rekhas, that is a zero should be written against all of them. Thereafter Ekadhipatya Shodhana should be done in the same manner, described later. (For Shodhana of the AshtakaVarg of a Grah the first thing to be done is to see, in which R??i the Grah is posited. Beginning from that R??i, the names of the 12 R??is should be written and then the names of the Grahas, posited in them, should be mentioned against them. Thereafter the Rekhas, gained by that R??i, should be written below them and the number, achieved after Shodhana, below it) Ch. 68. Ekadhipatya Shodhana in the AshtakaVarg 1-5. Ekadhipatya Shodhana is done after writing the numbers for R??is, arrived at by Trikon Shodhana. Ekadhipatya Shodhana is done, if both the two R??is, owned by a Grah, have gained a number afterTrikon Shodhana. Ekadhipatya Shodhana is not to be done, if one R??i has got a number and the other is bereft of any number. The following are the rules for Ekadhipatya Shodhana. If both the R??is are without a Grah and the Trikon Shodhana numbers are different, both should be given the smaller number. If both the R??is are with Grahas, no Shodhana is to be done. If amongst the two R??is one is with a Grah and a smallerTrikon rectified number and the other is without Grah with a bigger number, deduct the smaller number from the bigger number and the number of the R??i with Grah should be kept unchanged. If the R??i with the Grah has a bigger number than that of the R??i without Grah, the Shodhana should be done of the number of the R??i without Grah and the number of the R??i with Grah should be kept unchanged. If both the R??is are without Grahas and possess the same numbers, Shodhana of both the numbers should be done and the rectified numbers should be reduced to zero. If one R??i is with Grah and the other is without any Grah, the number of the latter should be reduced to zero. S?rya and Candr own one R??i only, their numbers should be kept unchanged. 6.After doing Ekadhipatya Shodhana, Pinda Sadhana should be taken in hand. Ch. 69. Pinda Sadhana in the AshtakaVarg 1-4. The Sage said. O Brahmin!After completing theTrikon and Ekadhipatya Shodhana in the AshtakaVargas of all the Grahas, the rectified number should be multiplied by the measure of the R??i. If there be any Grah in any R??i, the rectified number should be multiplied by the measure of the Grah also. Then, after multiplying the rectified number of each R??i, the products should be added up. The total so arrived at will be Pinda of that Grah.The multiples of R??is are 10 forVrishabh and Simh, 8 for Mithun and Vrischik, 7 for Mesh and Tul, 6 for Makar and Kanya. The multipliers of the remaining R??is are the same, as their numbers. (R??iman Chakr. Mesh 7, Vris 10, Mith 8, Kark 4, Simh 10, Kany 6, Tula 7, Vrsk 8, Dhan 9, Maka 5, Kumb 11, Mina 12)The multipliers of Grahas are 10 for Guru, 3 for Mangal, 7 for ?ukr, 6 for Budh, S?rya, Candr and ?ani. (Grahman Chakr. S?rya 5, Candr 5, Mangal 8, Budh 5, Guru 10, ?ukr 7, ?ani 5) Ch. 70. Effects of the AshtakaVarg 1-6. The matters to be considered from S?rya and other Grahas are, as follows. S?rya the soul (Atma), nature, physical strength, joys and sorrows and father. Candr - mind, wisdom, joy and mother. Mangal - co-borns, strength, qualities and land. Budh business dealings, livelihood and friends. Guru - nourishment of the body, learning, son (children), wealth and property. ?ukr - marriage, enjoyments, conveyance, prostitution and sexual intercourse with women. ?ani - longevity, source of maintenance, grief, danger, losses and death. The following procedure should be adopted to ascertain the effects of a house. Multiply the number of Rekhas with theYog Pinda (R??i Pinda plus Grah Pinda), connected with the AshtakaVarg of that Grah and divide the product by 27. The remainder will denote the number of the Nakshatr. During the transit of ?ani in that Nakshatr the Bhava concerned will be harmed. 7-9. The 9th house from S?rya at the time of birth deals with father. The Rekhas of that R??i, as marked in S?rya’sAshtakaVarg, should be multiplied by the Yog Pinda and the product be divided by 27. The remainder will denote the number of Nakshatr. The father will be in distress, or he will otherwise suffer, when ?ani in transit passes through the Nakshatr. Even, when ?ani passes in transit the Trikon Nakshatras, father, or relatives, like father, may die, or suffer. Notes. By dividing the 27 Nakshatras in three equal parts, the 1st, 10th and 19th fall in Trikon from each other. S?rya is PitraKarak (significator of father). Therefore all about father is ascertained from the S?rya’sAshtakaVarg. 10-11. If the AshtakaVarg Rekha number is multiplied by the Yog Pinda and the product is divided by 12, the remainder will denote the R??i, through which, or through the R??is in Trikon to it, the transit of ?ani will cause harm, or unfavourable effects to father. Death of the father may occur, if the Dasa prevailing at that time be unfavourable. If the Dasa be favourable, father will face only adverse effects. (12-15 Arishta to Father) 12-14. The death of the father may be expected, if Rahu, ?ani, or Mangal are in the 4th from S?rya at the time of transit of ?ani through any of the above three R??is (Trikon R??is). The death of the father will come to pass by such transit, if at that time ?ani, associated, or aspected by a malefic, be in the 9th from Lagn, or Candr and/or the Dasa of the Lord of the 4th from Lagn be in operation. The death does not take place, if a favourable Dasa be in force at the time of ?ani’s transit. This should be kept in mind by the Jyotishis, while making predictions. 15. If the R??i of Lagn of the native be the 8th R??i from Lagn of the father, or, if the Lord of the 8th from father’s Lagn be in Lagn of the native, he takes over all the responsibilities of his father after the latter’s death. 16-18. The father enjoys happiness in the Dasa of the Lord of the 4th from Lagn. The native is obedient to his father, if the Lord of the 4th be in Lagn, or the 11th, or in the 11th, or 10th from Candr. If the birth be in the 3rd R??i from Lagn, or Candr of the father, the native makes proper use of the wealth, inherited from his father. If the birth be in the 10th R??i from Lagn, or Candr of the father, the native will inherit all the good qualities of his father. If the Lord of the 10th be in Lagn, the native will be more distinguished than his father. 19-20. No auspicious functions, like marriage etc., should be performed in the month of R??is (that is, when S?rya transits that R??i), which has more number of dots in S?rya’s AshtakaVarg. The same applies to the Samvatsar of that R??i (that is, when the mean Guru transits that R??i). Auspicious functions should be performed, when S?rya, or the mean Guru transits the R??i, which has more Rekhas in S?rya’sAshtakaVarg. 21-23. In the same manner no auspicious functions should be performed during the transit of Candr in the R??i, which has larger number of dots in Candr’sAshtakaVarg. Consideration, regarding mother, house and village, should be done from the 4th Bhava from Candr. Therefore multiply the number of Rekhas in the AshtakaVarg of Candr by the Yog Pinda of thatAshtakaVarg and divide the product by 27. The death of, or distress to mother may be expected, when ?ani passes in transit through the Nakshatr, denoted by the remainder. Then divide the product by 12. The death of the mother may occur, when ?ani transits the R??i, denoted by the remainder. Distress to mother may be predicted, when ?ani transits the Nakshatras, or R??is in Trikon to Nakshatr and R??i, indicated above. 24-27. Consideration of brothers (co-borns), valour and patience is done from Mangal’s AshtakaVarg. If the number of Rekha is larger in any R??i afterTrikon Shodhana, there will be gains of land, happiness from wife and great happiness to brother, when Mangal passes through that R??i in transit. If Mangal be weak, the brothers will be short lived. There will be distress to brothers, when Mangal transits a R??i without Rekhas. Here also the Yog Pinda of Mangal should be multiplied by the number of Rekhas in the AshtakaVarg and the product be divided separately by 27 and 12. The remainders will denote the Nakshatr and R??i. The brother will suffer, whenever ?ani transits that Nakshatr, or R??i (or the Trikon Nakshatras, or R??is). 28-29. Consideration in regard to family, maternal uncle and friends should be done from the 4th Bhava from Budh. The family etc. will enjoy happiness during the transit of Budh’sAshtakaVarg. After performingTrikon and Ekadhipatya Shodhana in Budh’s AshtakaVarg, the happiness, or distress of the family should be predicted from the transit of ?ani through the resultant Nakshatr and R??i (and those in Trikon to them). 30-33. All about knowledge, religious inclinations of the native and son (progeny) is to be ascertained from the 5th Bhava from Guru. If the Rekhas in the 5th Bhava from Guru are larger in number in the AshtakaVarg, there will be great happiness in respect of progeny. If the dots are larger in number, the happiness in respect of progeny will be meagre. The number of children are equal to the number of Rekhas in the 5th Bhava (from Guru), provided it is not the R??i of debilitation of Guru, or his enemy’s R??i. In that case the number of children will be very limited. The number of children is also equal to the number of Navams, in which the Lord of the 5th from Guru is posited. Multiply the Yog Pinda of Guru by the number of Rekhas in the AshtakaVarg and divide the product separately by 27 and 12. The remainders will denote the Nakshatr and R??i. Transit of ?ani through that Nakshatr and itsTrikon Nakshatras and of that R??i and its Trikon R??is will be inauspitious. During that period the knowledge, learning and religious activities of the native will also be adversely affected. 34-36. There will be gain of wealth, land and happiness and marriage, whenever ?ukr passes in transit through the R??is, which have larger number of Rekhas in the AshtakaVarg of ?ukr. These gains will be from the directions of the 7th R??i from ?ukr and of itsTrikon R??is. The effects should be judged in the manner, already explained earlier, after multiplying the Rekhas in the 7th Bhava from ?ukr by the Yog Pinda. 37-40. The 8th Bhava from ?ani signifies death, as well as longevity. Assessment about longevity should be made from that Bhava through the AshtakaVarg.Therefore predict distress to the native in the year, equal to the number of Rekhas in the AshtakaVarg from Lagn up to ?ani. The year, equal to the number of Rekhas from ?ani up to Lagn, will also be of distress. If in the year, equal to the total of the above Rekhas, Arishta Dasa be also in operation, there can be possibility of death of the native. 41-42. Multiply theYog Pinda by the number of Rekhas in the AshtakaVarg and divide the product by 27. The death of the native will take place, when ?ani passes in transit through the Nakshatr, denoted by the remainder, or itsTrikon Nakshatras. Again, divide the product by 12. The native will face danger of death, when ?ani passes in transit through the R??i, denoted by the remainder, or through itsTrikon R??is. 43-44. The results will be favourable, when ?ani passes in transit through R??is, which have larger number of Rekhas in ?ani’sAshtakaVarg. ?ani’s transit through R??is, which have larger number of dots, will produce only evil effects. Ch. 71. Determination of Longevity through theAshtakaVarg 1-4. The sage said. I will now describe the method of determining longevity from the AshtakaVarg. For this purpose theAshtakaVargas of Lagn and all the Grahas have to be studied. The Rekhas in all the R??is have been allotted specific spans of life.The R??i, which has no Rekhas, has been allotted 2 days, that with one Rekha gets l? days, one day for R??i with 2 Rekhas, half day for R??i with 3 Rekhas, 7? days for R??i with 4 Rekhas, 2 years for R??i with 5 Rekhas, 4 years for R??i with 6 Rekhas, 6 years for R??i with 7 Rekhas and 8 years for R??i with 8 Rekhas. In this manner the spans of life should be worked from Rekhas in all the AshtakaVargas. Half of the sum total of all will be the longevity, based on AshtakaVarg. Ch. 72. AggregationalAshtakaVargas 1-2. The sage said. O Brahmin!Write down a R??i Kundali with 12 Bhavas, including Lagn. Then insert the total of the Rekhas in all theAshtakaVargas of the Grahas in the R??i concerned. The AshtakaVarg with such Rekhas is called the SamudayAshtakaVarg, or the aggregationalAshtakaVarg. From this should be judged good and adverse effects of the R??i Kundali. 3-5. In the aggregationalAshtakaVarg the R??i, which has more than 30 Rekhas, gives favourable effects, that, having between 25 and 30 Rekhas, produces medium effects and that R??i, who has less than 25 Rekhas, yields adverse effects.Auspicious functions, like marriage etc., should be performed, when the Grah, on whose basis the time and date of functions are performed, moves into the R??i with favourable effects. The R??i, which is productive of adverse effects should be avoided for these purposes. For example, the strength of Candr (CandraBal) is generally acceptable for all auspicious functions. Therefore auspicious functions should be performed, or started, when Candr is in the R??i with maximum number of Rekhas. The Grah in the R??i with favourable number of Rekhas produces auspicious effects and the Grah in the R??i with unfavourable number of Rekhas yields evil results. 6-6?. Amongst the 12 Bhavas more than 30 Rekhas advance the effects of a Bhava, between 25 and 30 Rekhas produce medium effects and the effects of the Bhava, which contains less than 25 Rekhas, get damaged. Notes. From the above rules it can be interpreted, that, if there are less than 25 Rekhas in 6th, 8th and 12th Bhava, their effects become favourable.The effects will become adverse, if these Bhavas contain more than 25 Rekhas. 7-8. If in a R??i Kundali there are larger number of Rekhas in the 11th than those in 10th and there are smaller number of Rekhas in the 12th than those in the 11th and Lagn contains largest number of Rekhas, the native will be wealthy and will enjoy all kinds of comforts and luxury. 9-10. Divide the 12 Bhavas in 3 sections. There will be sufferings and distress in that part of the life, which is represented by the section of the R??i Kundali with more malefics. There will be happiness etc., in the part of the life, represented by the section of the R??i Kundali, containing more benefics. There will be mixed results in that area of life, when the relative section of the R??i Kundali has equal number of benefics and malefics. The Bhavas from Lagn up to the 4th signify childhood, those from 5th to 8th youth and those from the 9th to 12th represent old age. 11-28. There will be danger of death in the month of the R??i (period of S?rya’s transit in that R??i), which has 7, or less than 7 Rekhas in the Samudaya AshtakaVarg. To ward off this evil effect 20 Tolas of gold and 2 heaps of sesame seeds, resembling the shape of a mountain, should be given in charity. … possibility of death …, … 8. Tuladan of camphor is recommended to obtain relief from this evil effect. … danger of snakes …, … 9. A chariot with 7 horses should be given in charity …. … danger from weapons …, which contains 10 …. An armour together with Vajra should be given in charity to ward off …. … danger of disgrace for no cause …, … 11. An idol of the moon, made of 10 Tolas of gold, should be given in charity …. … danger of death from drowning …, … 12. Land full of crops should be given in charity …. … danger of death from wild and violent animals …, in which there are 13 …. A Shaligram Shila should be given in charity …. … danger of death …, … 14. AVarah Murti, made of gold, should be given in charity …. … danger of the wrath of the king …, … 15. An elephant should be given in charity …. … danger ofArishta (calamity, disaster, or misfortune) …, … 16. A Kalpa Vriksha, made of gold, should be given in charity …. … danger from diseases …, that has 17 …. A cow and jaggery should be given in charity …. … danger of conflict …, … 18. A cow, jewels, land and gold should be given in charity …. … possibility of banishment from the homeland …, which has 19 …. Family deity should be worshipped …. … loss of intelligence …, … 20. Goddess Saraswati should be worshipped …. … distress from diseases …, that has 21 …. A heap of grains, shaped, like a mountain, should be given in charity …. … distress to kinsmen …, … 22. Gold should be given in charity …. The native will be in distress …, … 23. An idol of the sun, made of 7 Tolas of gold, should be given in charity …. … death of the kinsmen …, … 24. 10 cows should be given in charity …. … loss of wisdom …, … 25. Goddess Saraswati should be worshipped …. … loss of wealth …, … 26. Gold should be given in charity …. … loss of wealth …, … 27. Sri Sukta Japa should be performed …. … losses in several ways …, … 28. Havana of S?rya should be performed …. … anxieties all-round …, … 29. Gh?, clothes and gold should be given in charity …. … gains of wealth and grains etc. …, … 30. 29. There will be all-round increase in wealth, happiness in respect of children and enjoyments in the Samvatsar, month and Nakshatr of the R??i, which has more than 30 Rekhas. … increase in wealth, property, children and good reputation, if the R??i has more than 40 Rekhas. 30-31. The R??i, which is auspicious in AshtakaVarg Samudaya, is considered auspicious for all auspicious functions. Consequently the auspiciousness ofAshtakaVarg should be got checked before performing any function, like marriage etc. If a R??i is not auspicious in AshtakaVarg, then its auspiciousness should be checked from transit effects. It is not necessary to check transit effects, if a R??i is auspicious in AshtakaVarg. Thus the auspiciousness of the R??i in the AshtakaVarg should be considered, as paramount. Ch. 73. Effects of the Rays of the Grahas 1-2. The sage said. O Brahmin! Now I am going to tell you about the number of rays of the Grahas. When S?rya etc. are in their deep exaltation point, their rays are: S?rya 10, Candr 9, Mangal 5, Budh 5, Guru 7, ?ukr 8 and ?ani 5. The rays are nil, when these Grahas are in deep debilitation, the number of rays would be proportionate with the number of R??i. The following method is to be adopted for ascertaining the proportionate number of rays. Deduct the debilitation R??i etc. of the Grah, whose rays are to be ascertained, from his longitude. If the remainder is less than 6 R??is it should be multiplied by the number of rays of that Grah, mentioned above and the product should be divided by 6. The result will denote the number of rays of that Grah. In case after deduction the remainder is more than 6 R??is, then it should be deducted from 12. The other procedure will remain the same. 3-7. The Sage said. O Maitreya! OtherAcharyas have recommended further correction of the number of rays, worked out in the manner described above. The corrections have to be made, as follows. If the Grah be in his exaltation R??i, the number of rays ascertained should be trebled. … Mooltrikon, … doubled. … own R??i, … multiplied by 3 and the product be divided by 2. … R??i of hisAdhimitr (great friend), … multiplied by 4 and the product be divided by 3. … Bhava of a friend, … multiplied by 6 and the product be divided by 5. The number of rays ascertained should be halved, if the Grah be in the Bhava of his enemy. If he be in the Bhava of hisAdhi-Shatru (great enemy), the number of rays ascertained should be multiplied by 2 and the product be divided by 5. No correction is to be made, if the Grah is in the Bhava of a neutral. The effects should be declared after computation of the net number of rays of each Grah. 8-18. The effects, produced by the number of rays of Grahas, are given below. Between 1 and 5 poor and unhappy, even if born in an eminent family. Between 6 and 10 poor, carrier of loads and without wife and children. 11 meagre wealth and few children. 12 meagre wealth, idiot and wicked. 13 thief. 14 wealthy, protector and maintainer of several families, learned and observer of the traditions of the family. 15 head of the family, achieves proficiency in many kinds of learnings, good qualities. This is what Lord Brahma has said. 16 most distinguished in the family. 17 employer of many servants. 18 maintainer of large family. 19 possessor of name and fame. 20 blessed with a large family and kinsmen. 21 maintainer and protector of 50 persons. 22 charitable and kind. 23 well cultured and happy. Between 24 and 30 healthy, powerful, favourite of the king, splendourous, possessor of a large family. Between 31 and 40 minister and maintainer and protector of 100 to 1000 persons. Between 40 and 50 king. 51 and above powerful sovereign. 1. The effects should be predicted, according to the number of rays of the Grahas at the time of birth, after taking into account the status of the native. 2. For example, if the rays are more than 50 in number, one born a Kshatriya king’s family will become a powerful sovereign, one born in a Vaishya family will become a king (or high dignitary), one born in Sudra family will become wealthy and one born in a Brahmin family will become very learned and will observe all religious norms. 21.The effects of the Grahas, moving from their debilitation to exaltation, are full. The effects of the Grahas, moving from their exaltation to debilitation, will be lesser than described above. 22-23. Auspicious and inauspicious effects of all the Grahas are according to the number of rays they possess. The prediction will not be correct without the knowledge of the effects of the rays. Therefore it is imperative, that in the judgment of R??i Kundalis and declaring results the effects of the number of rays of the Grahas be taken into account. Ch. 74. Effects of the Sudarshana Chakr 1-3. Maharishi Parasara said to Maitreya. O Brahmin! Now I will impart to you the knowledge of a great secrecy and superior importance, which was communicated to me by Lord Brahma himself for the benefit of the world. This is a Chakr by the name of Sudarshana, through which Devajnas will be able to predict the favourable and unfavourable results for every year, every month and every day from the time of birth to the time of death of a person. Listen to this very intently. 4. O Brahmin!Take a point and from it draw three circles. Within the circles draw 12 lines, so as to provide 12 Bhavas within each circle.This is how Sudarshana Chakr is drawn. 5-6. In the first circle (innermost) place the 12 Bhavas from Lagn with Grahas, posited there. In the circle next to the innermost circle place the 12 Bhavas from the R??i of Candr with the Grahas in them. In the third circle place the 12 Bhavas from the R??i of S?rya with Grahas in them. Thus there will be 3 R??is in each Bhava of the Chakr. 7-9. The significant aspect of this Chakr is, that Lagn, Candr and S?rya represent the first Bhava. The 2nd, 3rd etc. up to 12th from Candr and S?rya will deal with the same subject, as they do, when reckoned from Lagn. Then the results should be assessed, according to the Grahas in each Bhava. In this form of R??i Kundali S?rya is considered auspicious in the first Bhava and inauspicious, or malefic in other Bhavas. The malefics do not produce evil effects, if they are in their exaltation R??i. In this manner predictions should be made, after considering the benefic and malefic natures of the Grahas, their disposition and aspects from and on them. 10.A Bhava gets advancement, if it is occupied, or aspected by the Lord, or a benefic. The Bhava, which is occupied, or aspected by a malefic, is harmed. 11-13. The effects of a Bhava will be in accordance with the Grah occupying it, or in accordance with the Grah aspected, if no Grah is in occupation of the Bhava.The effects of a Bhava, occupied by a benefic, will be auspicious and the Bhava, occupied by a malefic, will be inauspicious. Effects of the aspects will be the same. If a Bhava is influenced both by benefics and malefics, the results will depend on the majority amongst the benefics and malefics. If the number of benefics is larger than the number of malefics, the results will be auspicious. If reverse is the case, inauspicious, or evil effects may be expected. If there are equal number of malefics and benefics, those with greater strength will influence the results of that Bhava. Mixed results should be declared, if there be no difference in the strength of malefics and benefics. The same would apply to aspects. 14. The effects should be declared, according to its Lord, if the Bhava is neither occupied, nor aspected by a Grah. 15-16. A natural benefic loses his benevolence, if he is in more malefic Vargas. Similarly a natural malefic loses his malevolence, if he is in more benefic Vargas (SaptaVarg). A Grah’s own R??i, his exaltation R??i and beneficVargas are considered auspicious. And malefic and the Vargas of an enemy and debilitated R??i are considered inauspicious. 1. The sage said, that the results should be declared only after assessing the auspiciousness and inauspiciousness of all the Bhavas. 2. Maitreya asked. OVenerable sage! Kindly enlighten me on one point. If all the Bhavas are judged in accordance with the Sudarshana Chakr, why many learned sages have advocated declaration of effects from the Bhavas, reckoned from Lagn in R??i Kundali? 19-20. The sage replied. The results should be declared in accordance with the Sudarshana Chakr, only when S?rya and Candr being in separate R??is different from the R??i of Lagn. If amongst Lagn, S?rya and Candr, all the three, or two of them are in the same R??i, the judgment of effects should be made from the R??i Kundali only. (21-23)The sage said. O Brahmin! Now I will tell you about the effects, produced every year and every month by the twelve Bhavas in their Dasas and Antardasas, according to Sudarshana Chakr. Under this system every one of the twelve Bhavas, beginning from the 1st, is allotted a Dasa period of one year. Thus every year in 12 years a Bhava becomes Lagn of the year and the remaining become 2nd, 3rd and so on. Every year every Bhava will haveAntardasa of one month. By following the method of Lagn of the year here also, there will be a Lagn of the month. The firstAntardasa will be of the first Bhava and then will follow for 12 months the Antardasas of the other Bhavas, every Bhava assuming the role of Lagn by turn. Every Bhava gets Pratyantar Dasa of 2? days and Vidasa of 12? Ghatikas. The same method is to be adopted for judging the effects of Bhavas in Pratyantar Dasas and Vidasas. 24-26. At the time of commencement of a Dasa, if there be benefic in the 1st, 4th, 7th, 10th, 5th, 9th and 8th, favourable effects will be experienced in the concerned year, month etc. The Bhava, which is occupied by only Rahu, or Ketu, becomes harmful. The same will be the fate of the Bhava, which is occupied by a larger number of malefics. If there be benefics in Bhavas other than the 12th, or 6th, the Bhava concerned will produce favourable effects. In other words, if the benefics be in the 12th, or 6th from the Bhava concerned, unfavourable effects will be derived in the related year, month etc. If there be malefics in the 3rd, 6th and 11th from the Bhava, assuming the role of Lagn, then these three Bhavas will produce auspicious results. The effects can be ascertained for every year, month etc. in this manner. The total number of years in Vimsottari Dasa are 120 years. After every 12 years the same method of determining the Dasas, Antardasas etc. has to be repeated for Lagn and other Bhavas. 27-28. After ascertaining the effects of the years, months etc. in accordance with the Sudarshana Chakr, assessment of effects for the years, months etc. should be made on the basis ofAshtakaVarg. The benefic, or malefic effects will be full, if the assessment from both produces the same results. If they are different, the comparative strength of both should be taken into account to declare the final results. Ch. 75. Characteristic Features of Panchmahapurushas 1-2. The sage said. O Maitreya! Now I will relate to you the characteristic features of Panchmahapurushas. When Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani, being in their own, or exaltation R??i, be in Kendra to Lagn, they give rise to Ruchaka, Bhadra, Hamsa, Malavya and SasaYogas. TheseYogas are called Panchmahapurusha Yogas and the persons, born in theseYogas, are known Panchmahapurushas. 3-7. The Ruchaka native possesses a long face, he is very enthusiastic, has spotless lustre, is powerful, has attractive brows, black hair and is fond of all things. He loves to fight wars, is of dark-red complexion, is victorious over enemies, is discriminating, is protector of thieves and has cruel temperament and slender thighs. He is a devotee of Brahmins, has marks ofVeena, Varg, Dhanus, Pasha and Vrasha R??is in his hands along with Chakr Rekha. He is well versed in occult sciences. He is 100 Anguls in height, his waste has the circumference, equal to the length of his face and is 1000 Karshas in weight. He, as ruler of Sahyachala and Vindhya Pradesh, dies, after attaining the age of 70, by fire or weapons. Notes. The old Rupee had the weight of 1 Karsha. 4 Karshas are equal to one Pala and 300 Palas make one Tula, according to Amarkosha. 20 Tulas are equal to one Bhara. 8-12. The Bhadra native is splendourous, like a lion, has very developed chest (or chest with well developed muscles), has the gait of an elephant, has long and thick arms, is learned in all respects. He is well versed in Yog performance, is Sattva-Guni and has beautiful feet, moustaches and head. He is fond of luxuries and comforts and has marks of Sankha (conch), Chakr, Gada, arrow, elephant, Dhwaja (flag) and Hala (plough) in his hands and feet. He is well versed in Shastras, has black and curly hair, possesses independent nature and is protector of his family. His friends share in the enjoyment of his wealth. He is 20 tulas in weight. He lives happily with his wife and children and, as ruler of Madhya Desha, lives for one hundred years. 13-16. The Hamsa native has voice, like a Hamsa, has a handsome appearance and well developed nose. He is a king with phlegmatic temperament, honey-like tawny-coloured eyes, red-coloured nails, sharp intelligence, sturdy cheeks, round forehead and beautiful feet. He has marks of Matsya (fish), Ankush (the iron hook, with which elephants are driven), Dhanus (bow), Sankh, Kamal (lotus) in his hands and feet. He is very passionate and his lust remains unfulfilled. He is 96 Anguls in height. He is fond of swimming and playing games in watery places. He enjoys life fully and, as ruler of a land, situated between the Ganges and Yamuna, dies after attaining the age of 100 years. 17-19. The Malavya native has beautiful lips and a slender waist. He is lustrous, like Candr, and has fragrance in his body. He is of ordinary red complexion, has a medium stature and clean and beautiful teeth. His voice is like that of an elephant and his arms are long enough to reach up to his knees. His face is thirteenAnguls in length and ten Anguls in breadth. He lives happily for seventy years, as ruler of Sindhu and Malwa, and then leaves for his heavenly abode. 20-22. The Sasa native has small sized teeth and face, but his body is not small. He is valorous. He has a slender waist and beautiful thighs. He is wise and enjoys wandering in forests and mountains. He is well versed in the loopholes of the enemy. He is lively, virile and fond of women. He usurps other people’s wealth. He has marks of Mala (garland), Veena, Mridanga (musical instruments) and weapons in his hands and feet. He rules happily over several parts of the earth and then leaves for his heavenly abode at the age of 70. Ch. 76. Effects of the Elements 1. The sage said. O Brahmin! Now I will tell you about the effects of the five elements: space, air, fire, water and earth. 2. Space, air, fire, water and earth are ruled by Guru, ?ani, Mangal, ?ukr and Budh. The effects are experienced in proportion to the intensity of the various elements. 3-4. The native will have temperament, according to the greater strength of the Grah at the time of birth. Guru, ?ani, Mangal, ?ukr and Budh will, respectively, give spacial (etheral), airy (windy), fiery, watery and earthy temperament. If all of them, or many of these Grahas have equal strength, the temperament will be of a mixed character. 1. If S?rya be endowed with strength, the native will have fiery temperament. If Candr be strong, the native will have watery temperament. All the Grahas in course of their Dasa endow the native with bodily lustre, relating to their elements. 2. The characteristic features of the person with fiery temperament are: distressed with hunger, restless, lean and thin body, learned, consumes a large quantity of food, sharp, fair-complexioned and proud. 3. … earthy: emits fragrance of camphor and lotus, is fond of luxuries, comforts and enjoyments and is permanently happy, forgiving and has a deep voice, like a lion. 4. … etheral: acquainted with semasiology, expert in diplomacy, brilliant, learned, unmasked face and long stature. 5. … watery: is lustrous, can sustain burdens, is soft-spoken, king, has many friends and is learned. 6. … airy: charitable, full of anger, fair complexion, fond of wandering, victorious over enemies, king and has lean physique. 7. When the fire element is predominant in a person, his face and body exhibit lustre, like gold and he has happy-looking eyes. He achieves success in all his ventures, is victorious over his enemies and gets gains of wealth. 1. … earth, the body of the person emits various kinds of fragrances. His nails, hair and teeth are are clean. He gets gains of happiness and wealth and is religious-minded. 2. … ether, the person is a clever conversationalist and becomes happy by learning to songs etc. 3. … water, the person’s body is slender, he enjoys good health and tasty food and is happy on that account. 4. … air, the body is filthy. The person becomes an idiot and suffers from rheumatism, sorrows and agonies. 5. The sage said. O Brahmin!The effects of the elements, which I have described above, will be realized in full, if the Grahas concerned are endowed with adequate strength. If they are weak, the effects will be reduced in proportion to their weakness. 6. If the Grah concerned is in his debilitation R??i, or be placed in an inauspicious Bhava, the elemental effects will be adverse, that is, opposite to the effects, described above. If a Grah is without strength, his elemental effects will be experienced only in imagination. 7. If a person’s time, date and place of birth is not known, he should determine the Dasa of a Grah from the effects, mentioned above and, if he is facing evil effects, he should take appropriate remedial measures to appease the Grah concerned. Ch. 77. Effects of the Gunas 1-4. The Great Sage Parasara said. O Brahmin!When the Sattva-Guni Grahas are predominant, the person born is Sattva-Guni and of good character. When Rajo-Guna (passion of love and pleasure) is predominant, the person born is Rajo-Guna and intelligent. When theTamo-Guna (attribute of darkness) is predominant, the person born is stupid.When at the time of birth all the Grahas are of equal dominance, the person has a mixture of all the attributes. The persons (creatures) so born are classified, as Uttama (most excellent), Madhyama (of intermediate type), Adhama (despisable) and Udaseena (indifferent, or neutral) in that order. Thus there are four kinds of animate beings (Prani). I will relate their attributes, which have been described by Narada and other sages. 1. The natural attributes of persons, belonging to Uttam class, are possession of control over organs of perception and mind, simplicity, truthfulness, patience and satisfaction. 6. Valour, splendour, patience, cleverness, not retreating in war and protecting the holy men are the natural attributes of persons, belonging to Rajo-Guna. 7. Greed, falsehood, idiocy, laziness and doing service of others are the inborn attributes of persons, who belong to Adham class. 8. Engagement in agriculture and business, protection of cattle and speaking both truth and lies are inborn attributes of persons, belonging to Udaseena class. 9. O Maitreya! Classify the people, as Uttama, Madhyama,Adhama and Udaseena after observation of the attributes, described above.A person should be considered appropriate for a job, according to his attributes. 10. If amongst Sattva, Rajas and Tamas any attribute is the most dominant, it is considered the most predominant of all. Otherwise all have equal effects. 11. The affectionate relationship between an employer and employee and man and women will be invariable and stable, if they possess the same attributes. 12. O Maitreya!Amongst the above four classes of persons, if there is any kind of relationship of evenAdhama with Udaseena, of Udaseena with Madhyama and of Madhyama with Uttama, there will be mutual affection and happiness. 13. If the bridegroom has better attributes than the bride and the master has better attributes than the servant, there will be mutual affection (regard for each other) and happiness. If the bride, or the servant possesses better attributes, the relationships will be full of bitterness. 14. The attributes of the native are dependent on his father and mother, his time of birth and the persons, he gets associated with. These are the root causes of Uttama etc. qualities, possessed by him. The attributes, endowed by the time of the birth and associations, are stronger than those, received from the parents. 15. Consequently the person is embellished with the attribute Sattva, Rajas, orTamas, whichever is predominant at the time of birth. The predictions should therefore be made after taking into account the time of birth. 16. The Supreme Lord of the Universe, who is indestructible and omnicient, is the Kal. He is the Creator, Protector and Destroyer of all movable and immovable. 1. These three faculties of Lord Kal are called nature. Divided by these faculties, the imperceptible Lord Kal is also perceptible. 18. In accordance with the self-created qualities by the Perceptible form of Lord Kal, there are four kinds of limbs, namely Uttama, Madhyama, Udaseena andAdhama. 19. From the Uttama, Madhyama, Udaseena and Adhama parts are created Uttama, Madhyama, Udaseena and Adhama types of creatures. 20. The Uttama part of Lord Kal is the head, Madhyama part both arms and chest, thighs form the Udaseena part and the feet fall in theAdhama part. 21. This is how a differentiation is made between classes of movables and immovables, according to attributes and the parts, from which the creations are made. 22. The Chaturvidha (four sided) Lord Kal has thus created this Chaturvidha universe in consonance with his own attributes. Ch. 78. Lost Horoscopy 1-2. Maitreya said. O Sage!You have so far described the auspicious and inauspicious effects to be enjoyed, or suffered by a person on the basis of the time of birth, but can the auspicious and inauspicious be ascertained, when the time of birth is not known? Kindly tell me, if there is any way to solve this problem. 3-4. The Sage said. Your question is a good one and is for the benefit of the world at large. Considering your attachment, I will tell you about this problem also. If any, or all amongst the Samvatsar, Ayana, Ritu, month, Paksha,Tithi, Nakshatr, Lagn, R??i, or Amsas etc. of the birth are not known, these can be ascertained from Prasna Lagn (Query chart). 5-6. The Samvatsar of the birth of the querist will be the same, as that of the R??i in the Dwadasams, in which the Prasna Lagn falls (Guru will be in that R??i at birth). Saumyayan (Uttarayan - the northern course of S?rya) will be in the first Hora of Lagn and Yamyayan (Dakshinayan - the southern course of S?rya) will be in its second Hora. The Ritu (season) may be determined with reference to the Lord of the Drekkan, in which Lagn falls. Shishir will be indicated by the Drekkan of ?ani, Grishma by that of S?rya and Mangal, Vasanta by that of ?ukr, Varsha by that of Candr, Sharad by that of Budh and Hemanta by that of Guru. 7. If there be any contradiction in the Ayana and Ritu, the Ritu may be determined from Budh in place of Mangal, from ?ukr in place of Candr and from ?ani in place of Guru. 8-9. After the Ritu becomes known take the first part of the Drekkan, as its first month and latter part, as the next month of the Ritu. Then from the expired Amsas of the Drekkan determine proportionately the Tithi, or the Amsas of S?rya. The Istakal, indicated by the Amsas (degrees) of S?rya, will be the time of the birth of the querist. From the Istakal so calculated have to be worked out the longitudes of the Grahas and Bhavas (Grah Spast and Bhava Spast). Predictions should then be made in accordance with the dispositions of the Bhavas and Grahas. 10. Maitreya asked. O Sage! Guru returns to the same R??i after every 12 years. Then from which circle of Guru should Samvatsar be determined. 11-12. The Sage said in reply. O Maitreya!When there is any doubt about the Samvatsar, take the approximate age of the querist and add multiples of 12 to the difference between the R??i of the Guru at the time of query and his R??i at the time of birth. The figure so arrived at should be taken, as the possible number of years and the Samvatsar should be determined accordingly. If by adding 12 there may appear to be difference in age, the position of Guru should be fixed, according to guessed approximate age, in the Trikon R??i, 5th, or 9th of the Prasna Lagn, as may be found feasible. Then, taking that, as the Samvatsar, the Ayana, Ritu etc. should be worked out accordingly in the manner already explained. 13. Maitreya asked again. O Sage! How will the time of birth be known after ascertaining the month and the Amsas etc. of S?rya. Please explain this for the benefit of the people. 14-16.The Sage said.After ascertaining the R??i, Amsas etc. of S?rya at the time of birth, the longitude of S?rya (S?rya Spast) should be worked out for the next day after the number of days, taken by S?rya after entering into the R??i, which will be equal to the expired Amsas of S?rya. Then the difference between the longitudes of this rising S?rya and S?rya at the time of birth should be converted into Kalas and multiplied by 60. The product should be divided by S?rya Spast, converted into Kalas. The Ghatikas etc. so becoming available will represent the Istakal of the birth before and after sunrise. If the longitude of the Ista S?rya be more than that of the rising S?rya, the Istakal of the birth will be so much after the sunrise. If the longitude of the Ista S?rya be less than that of the rising S?rya, the Istakal of the birth will be so much before the sunrise. Ch. 79. AscetismYogas 1. The Sage said. O Brahmin! Now I will describe to you the Yogas, leading to ascetism, under the influence of which the persons give up their homes and become initiated in some holy order. 2-3. TheYog for ascetism is formed, when four, or more Grahas, possessed of strength, occupy a single Bhava.The person born will become a Tapasvi, a Kapali, he will be wearing a red robe, be one, who keeps a Danda (staff),Yati, he will be keeper of a Chakr, or he will be a naked Sanyasin, according to the Grah, which is the strongest of the group: S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, or ?ani. If a number of Grahas are endowed with strength, the holy order of the one, strongest amongst them, is accepted. Notes. There is a similar verse in Varahamihir’s Brihat Jatak, which, translated into English reads, as under. “If at birth, four, or more Grahas, possessed of strength, occupy a single Bhava, the person born will become a Sakya, Jeevika, Bhikshu, aVriddha, or Guru, a Charak, a Nirgrantha, orVisava, a Vanyasana, orVanaprastha, according to which of the Grahas is the strongest Grah of the group: Mangal, Budh, Guru, Candr, ?ukr, ?ani, or S?rya. If the strongest Grah be conquered in planetary war by another Grah, or Grahas at the time of birth, the person will relinquish that stage of ascetic life and review to his previous condition of life.”AVanaprastha is a religious man, engaged in the practice of rigorous and devout penance (i.e. he will be a Tapasvi); aVivas is a naked ascetic (that is dwelling in hills and forests). A Bhikshu is an illustrious ascetic with a single staff for his symbol, engaged ever and anon in the contemplation of truths of the sacred scriptures. A Charak is a religious mendicant, wandering over many countries. A Shakya is an ascetic of the Buddhist clan. A Guru is a celebrated teacher, endowed with royal splendour. A Jeevika is a garrulous and gluttonous mendicant. 4. If strong Grahas, capable of leading to ascetism, be obscure by S?rya’s rays (that is they be combust), the person born, in spite of having reverence for the holy order, will not become initiated in that holy order. Notes. Brihat Jatak adds in this connection, that, if the Grahas referred to above be overcome in planetary war and be aspected by other Grahas, the person concerned will seek admission into the holy order without success. 5. If the other Grahas lose their strength (in spite of being in their exaltation R??is etc.), as a result of combustion with S?rya, the native will enter the holy order, as signified by S?rya, that is, he will become a Tapasvi. 6. If the Lord of the R??i, occupied by Candr (Janm R??i), having no aspect of other Grahas on himself, aspects ?ani, the native gets initiated into the holy order of the Grah, who is stronger amongst the two. 7. If the Lord of the R??i, occupied by Candr, be devoid of strength and is aspected only by ?ani, the native becomes initiated into the holy order, signified by ?ani (Nirgranthas, naked ascetics). 1. If Candr be in the decanate of ?ani, or in the Navams of ?ani, or Mangal and be aspected by ?ani, the native becomes an ascetic and enters the holy order, signified by ?ani. 2. There is planetary war, if Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr and ?ani are together (within one degree of each other), ?ukr is the conquerer, whether he is in North, or South, but amongst the other four only one, who is in the North, is the conquerer and that in the South is considered defeated in the planetary war. 3. If the Grah, who leads the native to ascetism, is conquered in planetary war by another Grah, or Grahas at the time of birth, the person will relinquish the holy order, in which he becomes initiated. 4. Maitreya asked. OVenerable Sage! If there be many Grahas, who are significators for ascetism, then, which holy order the native will get initiated into? 5. Maharishi Parasara replied. O Brahmin! If all the Grahas be possessed of strength, the native enters into the holy orders of all the Grahas. 6. The native gets initiated into the holy order of the Grah, whose Dasa gets into operation at first. Then he relinquishes this holy order of this Grah at the commencement of the Dasa of the next Grah and accepts the holy order, signified by him. 7. When Guru, Candr and Lagn are aspected by ?ani and Guru occupies the 9th, the person, born in the Rajayog, will become a holy illustrious founder of a system of philosophy (holy order). 8. When ?ani occupies the 9th from Lagn and is not aspected by any Grah, the person, possessed of Rajayog, will take himself to the holy order, before becoming a Lord of men. If there be no Rajayog the native becomes an ascetic (religious wanderer). Ch. 80. Female Horoscopy 1. Maitreya asked. O Sage!You have described the effects of many kinds. Now be kind enough to throw light on Str? Jatak (female horoscopy). 2. Maharishi Parasara replied. What a good question! Listen to what I am going to tell you about the R??i Kundalis of females.All the effects, that have been described till now in the case of male horoscopies, will apply to females also. Matters, relating to her physical appearance, should be determined from Lagn, those, relating to children, from the 5th Bhava, fortune for the husband from the 7th and death of the husband (widowhood) should be deduced from the 8th. Those effects, which are impossible to ascribe to the female, should be declared to be applicable to her husband. Brihat Jatak. “Of the effects, that have been described till now in the case of male horoscopes and those, that may be found in female horoscopes, suitable to females, should be declared, as applicable to them alone. The rest should be ascribed to their husbands. The death of the husband is to be deduced through the 8th place (from Lagn, or Candr, whichever is stronger). Matters, relating to her appearance, beauty etc., should be determined from Lagn and the R??i, occupied by Candr. It is from the 7th place (from Lagn, or Candr), that her welfare (happiness) and the nature of the husband should be ascertained.” Mantreswara’s Phaldeepika. “Whatever effects are declared for men, they are entirely applicable to women too. The woman’s prosperity and happiness have to be deduced from the 8th place (from Lagn, or Candr, whichever is stronger). Children should be declared from the 9th Bhava and matters, relating to her appearance, beauty etc., should be determined from Lagn. It is from the 7th place, that her welfare (power of influencing her husband) and the nature of the husband should be ascertained, while her association and chastity should be predicted from an examination of the 4th Bhava. Benefics in those Bhavas produce good results, while malefics in the above Bhavas are productive of evil, unless they happen to own the Bhavas, in which case the effects will be good.” Jatak Parijata. Whatever effects may accrue from the horoscopes of females, applicable only to men, should be ascribed to the husband. The good and evil, affecting their person, should be calculated from Candr and Lagn, whichever of them is stronger. It is from the 7th Bhava from Lagn, or Candr, that all, that is worthy, or unworthy in the husband should be ascertained and the death of the husband is foretold through the 8th. All this should be well weighed by the strength, or weakness of the Grahas, benefic and malefic. Before an announcement is made, of Lagn and Candr find, which is stronger. It is with reference to this, that the luck, beauty and strength of the women should be announced. Children and wealth in abundance should be declared through the 9th Bhava therefrom. Wedded happiness, or otherwise should be gathered from the 8th and husband’s fortune from the 7th. Some Jyotishis opine, that the well-being, or the reverses of the husband can be determined from the 9th. 1. If at the time of birth of a woman Lagn and Candr are in even R??is, the woman will be truly feminine in character. She will possess excellent qualities, be of steadfast character, beautiful and physically fit. 2. If Lagn and Candr are in odd R??is, she will be masculine in form and masculine in bearing and, if they be associated with, or aspected by malefics, she will be devoid of good qualities and be sinful. 1. If amongst Lagn and Candr one be in an even R??i and the other be in an odd one, the woman concerned should be declared to partake the characteristics of both male and female.The qualities of Lagn, or Candr will be more predominant, according to their strength. 2. O Brahmin!The effects in respect of women would particularly depend on the R??i and Trimsams of Lagn, or Candr, whichever is stronger. 9-16. When Lagn, or Candr is in a R??i, belonging to Mangal, the woman, born in a Trimsams of Mangal, will have illicit relations with a man before marriage. If she be born in Trimsams of ?ukr, she will become unchaste after marriage; if of Budh, she will be full of guile and adept in conjuration; if the Trimsams be of Guru, she will be worthy and virtuous; she will be menial, or slave, if birth be in a Trimsams of ?ani. … in a R??i, owned by Budh, the female, born in a Trimsams of Mangal, will be full of guile, will be a hard-worker; if the Trimsams be of ?ukr, will be possessed of good qualities; if of Budh, will be of the nature of hermaphrodite; if of Guru, will be chaste. In a R??i, owned by ?ukr, a female, born in aTrimsams of Mangal, will be deprived; if the Trimsams be of ?ukr, will be well known and possessed of excellent qualities; if of Budh, will be skilled in all arts; she will be endowed with all good qualities, if born in a Trimsams of Guru; she will remarry, if born in aTrimsams of ?ani. When Lagn, or Candr happens to be in a R??i, owned by Candr and theTrimsams of birth is owned by Mangal, the female born will be self-willed and uncontrolled; she will be unchaste and of loose character, if born in a Trimsams of ?ukr; will be skilled in arts and handiwork, if of Budh; will be gifted with all excellent qualities, if of Guru; will become a widow, if of ?ani. …, owned by S?rya and the Trimsams of birth be owned by Mangal, the female born will be very talkative; she will be virtuous, if born in a Trimsams of ?ukr; will bear masculine features, if of Budh; will be chaste and virtuous, if of Guru; will be unchaste, if of ?ani. When the rising R??i, or the R??i, occupied by Candr, is owned by Guru, the female, born in a Trimsams of Mangal, will be endowed with many good qualities; she will be Punschali, if born in a Trimsams of ?ukr; will be well versed in many sciences, if of Budh; will be endowed with all good qualities, if of Guru; will not indulge much in sexual intercourse, if of ?ani. When Lagn, or the R??i, occupied by Candr, belongs to ?ani, the female, born in a Trimsams of Mangal, will be a maid-servant; she will be learned (barren, according to Brihat Jatak), if born in a Trimsams of ?ukr; will be cruel and immoral, if of Budh; will be devoted to her husband, if of Guru; will be unchaste (addicted to men of low caste, according to Brihat Jatak), if of ?ani. 17-21. If the 7th Bhava be without a Grah (without strength) and without benefic aspect, the female born will have a coward and contemptible wretch for her husband. When the 7th Bhava is a moveable R??i, the husband will always be away from home. If Budh and ?ani be in the 7th Bhava, the husband of the woman concerned will be impotent. If S?rya occupies the 7th Bhava, the woman concerned is abandoned by her husband. If Mangal be in the 7th, the female concerned becomes a widow in her childhood. If ?ani be in the 7th, she lives to an old age, remaining unmarried. If there be a malefic, she becomes a widow, while young. If there be a benefic in the 7th, the female born will enjoy marital happiness and will be chaste. If there be both benefics and malefics in the 7th, both benefic and evil effects will be experienced. If Mangal be in the Navams of ?ukr and ?ukr be in the Navams of Mangal, the female concerned will have illicit relations with other men. If in thisYog Candr be in the 7th, the female concerned enters into illicit connections at the instance of her husband. 22-25. If at woman’s birth the 7th Bhava, or the setting Navams be that of Mangal, the husband will be fond of other women and will be of an irascible temper. If it be a R??i, or Navams of Budh, her husband will be very learned and clever. If it be a R??i, or Navams of Guru, the husband of the woman concerned will be of great merit and will have passions under his control. If it be a R??i, or Navams of ?ukr, her husband will be fortunate, very good-looking and liked by women. If the R??i, or Navams belongs to ?ani, her husband will be an old man and a fool. If the R??i, or Navams be Simh, her husband will be exceedingly soft in his disposition and will be very hard-working. If the 7th Bhava, or the setting Navams be a R??i, owned by Candr, the husband of the woman will be love-sick and gentle. If there be different R??is and Navamsas in the 7th, the effects will be of a mixed nature. The effects of the R??is and Navamsas will depend on their strength. 26-29. If in a female’s horoscope S?rya be in the 8th, the native will be unhappy, poverty-stricken, of deformed limbs and without faith in religion. If Candr be in the 8th, the woman concerned will be of a defective vagina, will have ugly breasts, with sinister eyes, without robes, or ornaments, sickly and will be defamed in the society. If Mangal, the native will be of weak constitution, sickly, widow, ugly-looking and full of sorrows and agonies. If Budh, she will be without faith in religion, timid, devoid of wealth, self-respect and good qualities and she will be quarrelsome. 30-33. If in a female’s horoscope Guru be in the 8th, the woman concerned will be shameless and without virtue, will have few children, fatty hands and feet, will be abandoned by her husband and be gluttonous. If ?ukr be in the 8th, she will be fond of pleasures, devoid of sympathy, religion, wealth, will be dirty and deceptive. If ?ani, the woman concerned will be of wicked disposition, dirty, deceptive and devoid of conjugal harmony. If Rahu, she will be ugly, without marital happiness, cruel-hearted, sickly and unchaste. 1. The woman will be barren, if in her R??i Kundali Candr and ?ukr be associated with ?ani, or Mangal and the 5th Bhava be occupied, or aspected by a malefic. 1. If the 7th be in the Navams of Mangal, the vagina will be diseased. If the 7th be the Navams of a benefic, she will have a well formed female organ and will be beloved by her husband. 2. If Mithun, or Kanya Lagn in a female’s horoscope is occupied by ?ukr and Candr, the woman concerned lives happily and is equipped with all kinds of comforts in her father’s house. 3. If Candr, Budh and ?ukr be in Lagn, the woman concerned is endowed with many good qualities and happiness. If Guru be in Lagn, she is happy, wealthy and has children. 4. If the 8th Bhava be Simh, or Kark and S?rya and Candr be both placed there, the woman concerned will be barren. If the 8th be Mithun, Kanya, or Kark and Budh and Candr be posited there, the female native will have only one child. 5. The woman concerned will be definitely barren, if Lagn be Mesh,Vrischik, Makar, or Kumbh and Candr and ?ukr be posited there, aspected by malefics. 6. The woman concerned will give birth to an already dead child, if the 7th be occupied by Rahu and S?rya, or Guru and Rahu be in the 8th and the 5th be occupied by malefics. 7. The woman concerned will not be able to conceive, if Guru and ?ukr be associated with Mangal in the 8th, or Mangal be with ?ani in the 8th. 8. The woman concerned becomes a destructor of her husband’s family and her father’s family, if at her birth Candr and Lagn be subjected to Papa KartariYog (direct malefics in 12th and retrograde malefics in 2nd). 9. The woman, whose birth takes place under the following conditions, is named, as Visha Kanya. Day of birth Sunday, NakshatrAslesha, 2nd Tithi; Saturday, Krittika, 7th Tithi;Tuesday, Satabhisha, 12th Tithi. 10. The woman will be Visha Kanya, if at birth Lagn be occupied by a malefic and a benefic and two Grahas be in inimical R??is. 11. Visha Kanya gives birth to a child already dead. She has a defective generative organ and is bereft of robes, ornaments etc. 12. The evil effects ofVisha Kanya are destroyed, if the Lord of the 7th is a benefic, or a benefic Grah be in the 7th from Lagn, or Candr. 1. The woman born becomes a widow, if Mangal be in the 12th, 4th, 7th, or 8th from Lagn, without aspect by, or association with any benefic. 48-49. TheYog, which causes the woman to become widow also causes a male native to become a widower. If the man and woman, possessing thisYog, join in wedlock, theYog ceases to have any effect. 50-51. If at a woman’s birth the rising R??i be that of ?ukr and the rising Navams be of ?ani (Kumbh, according to Brihat Jatak) and, if ?ukr and ?ani aspect each other, or are occupying each other’s Navams, she will be afflicted with too much lust and will allay her fire of passion with the help of other females, acting the part of a male. 1. When Guru, Mangal, Budh and ?ukr are strong and, when the rising R??i is an even one, the woman born will be learned in Shastras and an expounder of the Vedanta Philosophy. 2. When a malefic Grah is in the 7th and some Grah in the 8th, the woman concerned will become an ascetic. 3. The woman dies before her husband, when in her nativity there is a benefic in the 8th, without aspect by, or association with a malefic. 4. If at the birth of a woman there are equal number of benefics and malefics and they possess the same strength, she without doubt will leave for her heavenly abode along with her husband. Ch. 81. Effects of Characteristic Features of Parts ofWoman’s body. 1-2. Maitreya said. OVenerable Sage! I have been fully enlightened by the auspicious and inauspicious effects, described by you with reference to the Janm Lagn in a female’s horoscope. Now I request you to favour me with knowledge of auspicious and inauspicious effects with reference to the characteristic features of the various parts of a woman’s body. Maharishi Parasara replied. O Brahmin! Now I will tell you what Lord Shiva narrated to Goddess Parvati in this regard. 3-4. A woman, whose soles are even, smooth, soft, well developed, warm and shining in pink colour, without much perspiration, will be enjoying full happiness, befitting her sex. The one, whose soles are without pink colour, hard, dry, coarse, uneven, shaped, like a winnowing basket and bereft of flesh, will suffer misery. 5-6. The woman, who has marks of conch, Swastika, Chakr, lotus, flag, fish, umbrella and a long line, rising upwards in her soles, becomes a queen and enjoys great happiness and comforts. The one, who possesses marks, like those of snake, rat and crow, is bereft of wealth and suffers misery. 1. The girl, whose nails of toes are shining in pink colour, smooth, raised and round, enjoys great happiness and comforts. Blackish and torn nails denotes misery. 2. Raised, full, well developed, smooth and round great toe indicates happiness. The one, which is small, irregular in shape and flat, denotes misery. 3. The woman’s toes, which are soft, thick, round and well developed are considered auspicious. If the toes are long, she will be of loose morals. Thin toes indicate poverty. 10-16. Other effects about the toes are, as under. Short - short life. Short and long and irregular in shape - procurer and guileful. Flat - maid-servant. Spaced more than average - bereft of wealth.Toes, overlapping one over the other - widow and dependent on others. If dust is thrown up, when she walks - unchaste and brings defame to all the three families (her father’s, mother’s and husband’s). If the smallest toe does not touch the ground - she will destroy her husband and marry another; If the middle toe and the one next to it does not touch the ground - widow. First toe (next to great toe) longer than the great toe - she will develop illicit connection with a man before marriage and will be of loose morals. 1. If the back of the feet of a woman is raised, without perspiration, soft and smooth, she will become a queen. If the indications are contrary, she will be poverty-stricken. She will be fond of travelling, if the back part of the feet be veined. Hair on that portion of feet denote, that she will be a maid servant. If the feet be bony, or without flesh, she will have a defective sexual organ. 2. If the heels are even, the woman concerned will have a well formed and desirable sexual organ. If the heels be stout, she will have a defective sexual organ. If the heels be high, she will be unchaste. Long heels indicate misery. 3. Legs (portion below knees). Even, smooth, evenly shaped, round, without hair, good looking and without veins showing up are R??is, that the woman will be a queen. 4. Round, smooth, firm knees are auspicious indications. If the knees be bony, the woman concerned will be of loose moral character. If the knees be loose, she will be poverty-stricken. 5. If the thighs are round, like the trunk of an elephant, close to each other, soft and without hair, the woman concerned will be a queen. If the thighs are flat and hairy, she will be poverty-stricken and a widow. 22-23. Waist. Circumference equal to the width of 24 fingers with well developed hips indicate, that the woman will be fortunate.A waist, which is flat, long, without flesh, caved in, or hairy, forebodes widowhood and misery. 24. Raised, fleshy and widespread hips in a woman are auspicious in effects. If they are contrary, they indicate inauspiciousness. 25-27. Sexual organ. Hidden clitoris, pink-coloured, curved, like the back of a tortoise, soft, hairy, shaped, like the leaf of a Pipal tree and smooth is highly auspicious. If shaped, like the feet of a deer, or opening of an oven with hard hair and with raised clitoris, it indicates evil. If the left side of the sexual organ of a woman is raised, she will beget more female children and, if the right side is raised, more boys. If the organ is shaped, like a conch, she will be barren. 28. Portion below the navel.A soft, spread out and slightly raised Vasti is auspicious. Hairy, veins, showing up and full of lines (folds, or wrinkles) indicates inauspiciousness. 29.A navel deep with right turns is productive of good effects. The navel raised, with left turns and with knots is inauspicious. 30-31. A stomach well spread indicates a well formed sexual organ and many sons. If the stomach of a woman resembles that of a frog, her son will become a king. If a woman has a raised stomach she will be childless. If the stomach is wrinkled, she will become an ascetic. If it has circular folds, she will become a maid-servant. 1. If the portion, covering the ribs, is even, well developed and soft, auspicious effects may be expected. It will be inauspicious, if it is raised, hairy and full of veins. 2. The chest of a woman, which is even and hairless is auspicious. Wide spread and hairy chest is inauspicious. 34-36. The breasts of a woman signify good luck, if they are of equal size, fleshy, round and firm, but close together. They are unlucky, if they are thick in front, are not close together and without flesh. Raised right breast indicates, that she will have sons. Raised left breast indicates, that she will have daughters. If the portion, surrounding the nipples, is round, good-looking and blackish, she will enjoy good luck. Pressed in and unusually small breasts indicate bad luck. 1. Shoulders. Even, well built up and without joints showing up are R??is of good luck. Raised, hairy and without flesh are unlucky. 1. The armpits, if soft, with thin hair, well developed and smooth are auspicious. Those, which are deep, without flesh, perspiring and with veins, showing up are inauspicious. 39-40. Arms, in which the bones do not show up and which are soft jointed, hairless without obvious veins, straight and round are auspicious. Those without flesh, hairy, small, with obvious veins and irregular in shape are inauspicious. 41. If the thumbs of the woman are shaped, like a lotus bud, they are auspicious. If they are without flesh and irregular in shape, they are inauspicious. 42-43. If the palms of the woman are pink-coloured, raised in the middle, with fingers close together (with no holes between them), soft and have very few lines, she enjoys happiness and all comforts. If the palms are full of lines, she will become a widow. If there are no lines, she will be poverty-stricken. If the veins show up in the palms, she will live on alms. 44. If the backs of the hands of a woman are well built, soft and hairless, she will enjoy auspicious effects. It will be otherwise, if the backs of the hands are with veins, showing up, deep and hairy. 45-47. Lines on the palm.A woman enjoys happiness and all comforts, if there is a clearly marked, pink-coloured, circular, smooth, full and deep line (perhaps line of life is meant). If there is mark of a fish, she will be very lucky. She will be wealthy with mark of Swastika. She will be a queen with mark of a lotus. She will be the mother of a king, if she has marks of conch, umbrella and tortoise. 48-50. The woman, who has lines, forming the shapes of a balance, elephant, bull, or horse, becomes the wife of a businessman. The woman, who has lines, forming the shape of a house, orVajra is lucky and gives birth to a son, who becomes learned in Shastras. The woman, who has lines, forming the shapes of a chariot, a plough, or a yoke, becomes the wife of a farmer. She will become a queen, if she has lines, forming the shape of Chamar,Ankush, trident, sword, mace, Shakti, or trumpet. 51-52. If in the palm of a woman there is a line, which, starting from the root of the thumb goes up to the root of the little finger, she becomes a widow. If there are lines, forming the shape of a crow, a frog, a jackal, a wolf, a scorpion, a snake, a donkey, a camel and a cat, the woman concerned suffers misery. 53-54. If the fingers of a woman are tender with good-looking phalanges, tapering at the end and without hair, they are considered auspicious. If they are very small, without flesh, irregular, widely spaced, with hair and with more than usual phalanges, or without phalanges, they indicate misery. 1. If the nails of the fingers are pink-coloured, raised and shaped well at the top, they are auspicious. Depressed, dirty-looking, or yellow, or white-coloured nails, or nails with spots are inauspicious. 2. If the back of the woman is fleshy and well developed with flesh, it is auspicious. The back with hair, irregular in built and with veins showing up is inauspicious. 57-58. The neck of a woman with three lines (folds), with bones not obvious, round, well developed and tender is auspicious.A thick necked woman becomes a widow. An irregularly built neck indicates, that the woman concerned will become a maid-servant. Flat necked woman will be barren. A woman with a small neck is childless. 59.A straight, well developed, somewhat raised throat is auspicious. One without flesh, with veins obvious, with hair and irregular in built is inauspicious. 1. Pink-coloured, tender and firm chin is auspicious.A broad chin with hair and clefts is unlucky. 2. Raised, firm and round cheeks are auspitious. The ones, which are hard-skinned, depressed and without flesh are indicative of misfortune. 3. If the mouth of a woman is of normal size, firm, round, emitting fragrance, smooth and good-looking, it is indicative of good luck. If otherwise, it will be inauspicious. 63-65. If the lower lip of a woman is red, like a lotus, smooth, divided in the middle and good looking, she becomes a queen. If it be without flesh, coarse, long, dry and blackish, it is indicative of misery and widowhood. If the upper lip of a woman is pink-coloured, smooth and slightly raised in the middle, it is indicative of happiness and good fortune. If otherwise, it will be inauspicious. 66-67. A woman, whose teeth are smooth, milk white, 32 in number and whose upper and lower teeth, though equal in size, are slightly raised, will be lucky. If lower teeth are more in number, are yellow, or black-coloured, fierce looking, widely spaced and double, they are indicative of misfortune. 68-69. If the tongue of a woman is red and soft, she enjoys great happiness and comforts. Caved in the middle and spread out in front indicates misery. White tongue indicates death in water. Dark tongue indicates quarrelsome nature. Thick tongue denotes poverty. Long tongue denotes one, who is omnivorous. Long and broad tongue denotes lunacy. 70-71. Palate red, like lotus, soft and smooth - good luck, white - widowhood, yellow ascetism, black - barrenness, dry - large family. 72. When a woman laughs, if her cheeks are raised and teeth are not visible, she will be lucky. If it is otherwise, she will not be lucky. 73-74. If the nose of a woman is evenly round and has small nostrils, it is auspicious. If the nose is thick in its front part and flat in the middle, it is inauspicious. If the tip of the nose is red, or shrunken, widowhood is indicated. Flat nose indicates engagement in a menial job. Too small, or too large nose denotes quarrelsome nature. 75-77. Black pupils with cow’s milk like white portion of the eye, large and broad, smooth, with black eyelashes are lucky R??is. Raised eyes show short life. Round eyes denote loose moral character. Honey-coloured eyes indicate good fortune and happiness. The eyes, like those of a pigeon, indicate wickedness. Eyes, like those of an elephant, indicate misery. If the left eye is blind, adulterous tendency will manifest. Blindness of the right eye indicates barrenness. 78.A woman with soft, black, compact eyelashes with thin hair is fortunate. Eyelashes thick, scattered and with tawny-coloured hair indicate misery. 1. If the eyebrows of a woman are round, shaped, like a bow, smooth, black, not joined and with soft hair, she is blessed with happiness and fame. 2. Ears of a woman long with a round turn indicate children and happiness. Small, unevenly shaped, very thin, with veins, showing up, cause her misery. 81-82. The forehead of a woman without veins, showing through, without hair, shaped, like a half-moon, even, with equal to three fingers are R??is of a fortunate woman, blessed with husband and children. R??i of Swastika on the forehead denotes a queen. Very long, highly raised and hairy forehead causes misery. 83. Head of a woman high and round, like that of an elephant, is indicative of happiness. A head, which is spread out, flat, big and uneven, indicates misery. 84-85. The hair of a woman are indicative of good fortune. If they are soft, black, long, thin and yellow, they indicate misfortune. But honey-coloured hair of a fair complexioned woman and black hair of a dark complexioned woman are also considered auspicious. Most of the characteristic features, described in this chapter, apply to men also. Ch. 82. Effects of Moles, Marks, Signs etc. for Men and Women 1. Maharishi Parasara said. O Maitreya! Now I will describe to you the effects of moles, marks, spots and signs, found on the body of women and men. 2-3. A mole, spot, or figure, formed by hair on the left side of a woman and right side of a man is auspicious. If there is mole on the chest of a woman, she will be fortunate. A woman, who has a red mark, like a mole etc., on her right breast, begets many children and she is blessed with all kinds of enjoyments and comforts. 1. The woman, who has a red mark (mole) on her left breast, begets only one son. 2. The woman, who has a mole on her right breast, begets many daughters and sons. 3. There will be gain, or acquisition of a kingdom, if there, as is a red mole etc. on the forehead, or in the middle of (between) the eyebrows. The person will enjoy sweetish preparations, if there is such a mark on the cheeks. 7-10. The woman, who has a red mark (mole etc.) on her nose, becomes consort of a king. If the mark be blackish, the woman concerned becomes an adulteress, or widow. All the marks below the navel are auspicious for both men and women. If there be moles etc. on the ears, cheeks, or neck of a man, his first issue will be male and he will enjoy good fortune and happiness. The man, who has moles etc. in the thighs, suffers misery. 11. The woman, who has the sign of trident on her forehead, becomes a queen. Such a mark on the forehead of a man makes him a king. 12.A right-turned circular hair formation on heart, navel, hands, right part of the back and in the portion between sex organ and navel is auspicious. Left-turned formation is inauspicious. 13-14. Such a hair formation on the waist and private parts proves inauspicious. If such a formation be on the stomach, the woman concerned will become a widow. If it be in the center of the back she will become an adulteress. It will be inauspicious, if it be on the neck, forehead, or center of the head. 15.A man with indications of short life will get his longevity prolonged by marrying a woman with auspicious, or lucky marks/symbols. Ch. 83. Effects of Curses in the Previous Birth 1-3. Maitreya said. OVenerable Sage!You have acquainted me with effects, experienced by men and women in a number of ways. According to Shastras, the soul of a person does not rest in peace after his death, if he is not blessed with a son. What sin does a person commit to remain without a son?And what are the remedial measures to be adopted by him to get a son? Kindly enlighten me about this. 1. Maharishi Parasara replied. I will now tell you, whatever Lord Shiva told Goddess Parvati in this respect. 2. Goddess Parvati said to Lord Shiva. O my Lord!What is the sin, which causes destruction of children amongst men. Please tell me, what are the Yogas for such an effect and what are the remedial measures to protect the children? 3. Lord Shiva replied: O Devi!You have asked a very relevant question. Now I will tell you the Yogas for loss of children and the requisite remedial measures. 7.A person will be without a son, if Guru, the Lord of Lagn and the Lord of the 5th are all devoid of strength. 8. The same will happen, if S?rya, Mangal, Rahu and ?ani, endowed with strength, be in the 5th and the significator for children, namely Guru and Lord of the 5th etc. be bereft of strength. 9-16. There will be no male issue, due to the curse of a serpent, if at birth Rahu is in the 5th, aspected by Mangal; the Lord of 5th is associated with Rahu and Candr is in the 5th and is aspected by ?ani; the significator for children (Guru) is associated with Rahu, the Lord of the 5th is devoid of strength and the Lord of Lagn is with Mangal; the significator for children is associated with Mangal, Lagn is occupied by Rahu and the Lord of the 5th is in 6th, 8th, or 12th; Budh, as Lord of the 5th, being in the Navams of Mangal, is associated with Mangal and Lagn is occupied by Rahu and Gulika; the 5th is Mesh, orVrischik and the Lord of the 5th is associated with Rahu, or Budh; the 5th is occupied by S?rya, ?ani, Mangal, Rahu, Budh and Guru and the Lords of the 5th and Lagn are devoid of strength; the Lord of Lagn, or Guru is associated with Rahu and the Lord of the 5th is in conjunction with Mangal. 17-19. Remedial measures should be adopted to obtain protection from the evil effects of the aboveYogas. These are getting an idol of Naga (serpent) Raja, made in gold and, after worshipping it in accordance with prescribed procedure, giving in charity a cow, some land, sesame seeds and gold etc. By adopting these measures the Lord of Serpents will be gratified and by his beneficence the person concerned will be blessed with a son and the lineage of his family will be prolonged. 20-30. There will be no male issue, as a result of the curse of the father in the previous birth, if at birth of the native S?rya in his debilitation R??i and in the Navams of ?ani is hemmed in between malefics in the 5th Bhava; S?rya, as Lord of the 5th, posited in a Trikon with a malefic, is hemmed in between malefics and is also aspected by a malefic; Guru occupies the R??i of S?rya, the Lord of the 5th is with S?rya and Lagn and the 5th are occupied by malefics; Lord of Lagn, devoid of strength, is in the 5th and the Lord of the 5th is combust and Lagn and the 5th are occupied by malefics; there is exchange of Bhavas between Lords of the 5th and the 10th and Lagn and the 5th are occupied by malefics; Mangal, as the Lord of the 10th, is associated with the Lord of the 5th and Lagn, the 5th and the 10th are occupied by malefics; Lord of the 10th is in the 6th, 8th, or 12th, Guru is in a malefic R??i and the Lord of Lagn and the 5th are associated with malefics; S?rya, Mangal and ?ani are in Lagn and the 5th and Rahu and Guru are in the 8th and the 12th; S?rya is in the 8th, ?ani in the 5th, the Lord of the 5th is associated with Rahu and Lagn is occupied by a malefic; Lord of 12th is in Lagn, Lord of 8th in 5th and Lord of 10th in 8th; Lord of 6th is in 5th, Lord of 10th in 6th and Guru is associated with Rahu. 31-33. To get deliverance form the curse of the father the remedial measures are performance of Shraddha at Gaya; to feed ten thousand, one thousand, or 100 Brahmins, as one can afford; Kanyadana (to perform the marriage of a girl); giving a cow in charity. By observing these remedial measures, the person concerned becomes free from the curse and the family lineage is prolonged by the birth of sons, grandsons etc. Note. In this chapter, where the words ‘childlessness’ and ‘issue-lessness’ are used, they should be interpreted to mean want of male issue, because it is the male issue, who by performing the last rites of his father and mother ensures eternal peace to their souls. 34-50. A person will be without a male issue, as a result of curse of the mother, if at birth Candr, as Lord of the 5th is in her debilitation R??i, or is hemmed in between malefics and 4th and 5th are occupied by malefics; ?ani is in 11th, 4th is occupied by malefics and Candr is posited in the 5th in her debilitation R??i; Lord of 5th is in 6th, 8th, or 12th, Lord of Lagn in his debilitation R??i and Candr is associated with malefics; Lord of 5th is in 8th, 6th, or 12th, Candr in a malefic Navams and there are malefics in Lagn and in 5th; Lord of 5th and Candr, associated with ?ani, Rahu and Mangal, are in 5th, or 9th; Mangal, as Lord of 4th is associated with ?ani and Rahu and 5th and Lagn are occupied by S?rya and Candr, respectively; Lords of Lagn and 5th are in 6th, Lord of 4th in 8th and Lagn is occupied by Lord of 8th and 10th; Lagn is occupied by the Lords of 6th and 8th, Lord of 4th is in 12th and Candr and Guru, associated with malefics, are in the 5th; Lagn is hemmed in between malefics, waning Candr is in 7th and 4th and 5th are occupied by Rahu and ?ani, respectively; there is exchange of Bhavas between Lords of 5th and 8th and the Lord of 4th and Candr are in 6th, 8th, or 12th; Kark Lagn is occupied by Mangal and Rahu and Candr and ?ani are in 5th; Mangal, Rahu, S?rya and ?ani are in Lagn, 5th, 8th and 12th, respectively, and the Lords of Lagn and 4th are in 6th, 8th, or 12th; Mangal, Rahu and Guru are in 8th and ?ani and Candr are in 5th. For release from this curse and to beget a male issue the person concerned should take bath in the sea with bridge of rocks between India and Sri Lanka, recite one Lakh Gayatri Mantras, give in charity things, connected with evil Grahas, feed Brahmins and go round a Pipal tree 1008 times. By performing these remedial measures, he will not only beget a son, the lineage of family will also be prolonged. 51-61. A person will be without a male issue, as result of the curse of the brother, if at birth Lord of 3rd with Rahu and Mangal is in 5th and Lords of Lagn and 5th are in 8th; Lagn and 5th are occupied by Mangal and ?ani, respectively, the Lord of 3rd is in 9th and Mangal, the significator for brothers, is in 8th; Guru in his debilitation R??i is in 3rd, ?ani in 5th and Candr and Mangal are in 8th; Lord of Lagn is in 12th, Mangal in 5th and Lord of 5th, associated with a malefic, in 8th; Lagn and the 5th are hemmed in between malefics and the Lord of Lagn and 5th are in 6th, 8th, or 12th; the 3rd is occupied by the Lord of 10th along with a malefic and a benefic is with Mangal in 5th; the 5th in a R??i of Budh is occupied by ?ani and Rahu and Budh and Mangal are in 12th; the 3rd is occupied by the Lord of Lagn, the Lord of 3rd occupies the 5th and Lagn, 3rd and 5th are with malefics; Lord of 3rd is in 8th and Guru is associated with ?ani in 5th; Lord of 8th is in 5th along with the Lord of 3rd and Mangal and ?ani are in 8th. 62-64. The person concerned will, without doubt, get release from the curse, will be blessed with a son and the prolongation of his family lineage will be ensured, if the following remedial measures are adopted. He should observe the Candryana fast after listening to Haribansa Puran. He should plant a sapling of Pipal in front of Saligram on the banks of the Caveri river, or on the Ganga, or Mahanadi and offer prayers to it. He should give 10 cows in charity through his wife. He should give in charity land with mango trees, planted on it. 65-68. A person will be without a male issue, as a result of the curse of the maternal uncle, if at birth the 5th is occupied by Budh, Guru, Mangal and Rahu and ?ani is in Lagn; the 5th is occupied by the Lords of Lagn and of 5th along with ?ani, Mangal and Budh; Lagn is occupied by a combust Lord of 6th, ?ani is in 7th and Lord of Lagn is associated with Budh; Lords of Lagn and 4th are in Lagn and Candr, Budh and Mangal are in 5th. 69-70. To get release from the curse and for being blessed with a son and for ensuring the prolongation of the lineage of the family the following remedial measures are to be adopted. Installation of an idol of Lord Vishnu. Construction of a deep, or ordinary well, dam, or reservoir, or all of them. 71-78. If a person, mad with power and wealth, insults a Brahmin, he remains without a male issue in the next birth. A person will be without a male issue, as a result of the curse of a Brahmin, if at birth Rahu is in Guru’s R??i and Guru in 5th; Lord of 9th is in 5th and Lord of 5th in 8th along with Guru, Mangal and Rahu; Lord of 9th is in his debilitation R??i and Lord of 12th, associated with Rahu, is in 5th; Guru is in his debilitation R??i, Rahu in Lagn, or 5th and Lord of 5th in 6th, 8th, or 12th; Lord of 5th and Guru, associated with malefics, are in 8th, or the Lord of 5th, associated with S?rya and Candr, is in 8th; Guru, being in the Navams of ?ani, is associated with ?ani and Mangal and the Lord of 5th is in 12th; Guru is associated with ?ani in Lagn and Rahu is in 9th, or Rahu is with Guru in 12th. These are Yogas, which reveal the curse of Brahmin in the previous birth. 79-81. To obtain relief from the evil effects of the aboveYogas the remedial measures are to observe Candrayana fast and to do penance three times and to give in charity a cow and five gems with gold, after feeding Brahmins, according to one’s means and giving them presents in cash. Then the person will be released from the curse and will be endowed with happiness. 82-92. A person does not beget a male issue, as a result of the curse of the wife, if at birth Lord of Lagn is in 5th, ?ani in the Navams of Lord of 7th and Lord of 5th in 8th; Lord of 7th is in 8th, Lord of 12th in 5th and Guru is associated with a malefic; ?ukr is in 5th, Lord of 7th in 8th and 5th is occupied by a malefic; the 2nd and 5th are occupied by a malefic and Lord of 7th is in 8th; ?ukr is in 9th, Lord of 7th in 8th and Lagn and 5th are occupied by malefics; ?ukr is Lord of 9th, Lord of 5th is in an inimical R??i and Lord of Lagn and 7th and Guru are in 6th, 8th, or 12th; the 5th isVrishabh, orTul, occupied by S?rya and Candr and 12th, Lagn and 2nd are occupied by malefics; ?ani and ?ukr are in 7th, Lord of 8th is in 5th and Lagn is occupied by S?rya and Rahu; Mangal occupies 2nd, Guru is in 12th and ?ukr and Rahu are in 5th; Lords of 2nd and 7th are in 8th, Mangal and ?ani occupy 5th and Lagn, respectively, and Guru is associated with a malefic; Rahu is in Lagn, ?ani in 5th, Mangal in 9th and Lords of 5th and 7th are in 8th. 93-94. The person concerned gets release from the curse and is blessed with a son, if he performs the marriage of an unmarried girl, or, if such a girl is not available, a gold idol of the Lakshminarayana, fertile cow, a bed, ornaments and garments to a Brahmin couple. Notes. According to our view, ‘Kanyadana’ does not mean giving a girl in charity, but helping in the performance of the marriage of an unmarried girl, not his own daughter. 95-105. If the person, whose duty is to do so, does not perform Shraddha of his father, or mother in his previous birth, the departed soul is formed into an evil spirit and he is deprived of a male issue in the next birth. This is revealed by the followingYogas at birth. ?ani and S?rya in 5th, waning Candr in 7th and Rahu and Guru in 12th; ?ani, as Lord of 5th in 8th, Mangal in Lagn and Guru in 8th; Malefics are in Lagn, S?rya in 12th, Mangal, ?ani and Budh are in 5th and the Lord of 5th is in 8th; Rahu is in Lagn, ?ani in 5th and Guru in 8th; ?ukr, Guru and Rahu are in Lagn, associated with Candr and ?ani and the Lord of Lagn are in 8th; Lord of 5th and Guru are in their debilitation R??is, aspected by debilitated Grahas; ?ani is in Lagn, Rahu in 5th, S?rya in 8th and Mangal in 12th; Lord of 7th is in 6th, 8th, or 12th, Candr is in 5th, ?ani and Gulika are in Lagn; Lord of 8th along with ?ani and ?ukr is in 5th and Guru is in his debilitation R??i. 106-108. The person concerned gets release from the curse and is blessed with a son, if he undertakes the following remedial measures. Performance of a Pinda Dana, Rudra Abhisheka, giving in charity a gold idol of Brahma, a cow, a vessel, made of silver and a Neelamani, feeding Brahmins and giving them presents in cash. 109-111. If a person is deprived of a male issue, as a result of malevolence of Grahas at birth, he will be blessed with a son, if he undertakes the following remedial measures. Worshipping Lord Shiva, if the harm is, as a result of the malevolence of Budh and ?ukr; reciting of Santan Gopal Mantra, wearing and worshipping appropriateYantra and taking suitable medicines, if the childlessness is a result of the malevolence of Guru and Candr; Kanya Dana, if the childlessness is due to malevolence of Rahu; worshipping of Lord Vishnu, if it is due to malevolence of S?rya; Rudriya Japa, if it is due to the malevolence of Mangal and ?ani. Listening with devotion to Haribansh Puran removes all kinds of blemishes and blesses the person concerned with a son. Ch. 84. Remedial Measures from the Malevolence of Grahas 1. Maitreya said. OVenerable Sage! Please describe for the good of mankind the remedial measures for appeasement of the malevolent Grahas. 2. The Sage replied. I have already described the names and characteristic features and qualities of the Grahas. Joys and sorrows of all the creatures in the world are dependent on these Grahas. Therefore persons desirous of peace, wealth and prosperity, rainfall, good health and longevity should worship the Grahas (by prayers, recitation of Mantras, charity etc.). 3-5. For the purpose of worshipping them the idols of S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, ?ani, Rahu and Ketu should be made of copper, Sphatika (rock crystal), red sandal wood, gold (both Budh and Guru), silver, iron, glass and bell metal, respectively. Alternatively the sketches of all the above Grahas should be drawn in the colours, belonging to them, on a piece of cloth by sandal etc. and they should be placed in their own directions. 1. Contemplate of S?rya well adorned with two arms, seated on a lotus, with a lotus flower in one hand, red-coloured, like lotus and aboard a chariot of seven horses. 2. Contemplate of Candr white-coloured, dressed in white robes, with two arms, carrying a mace in one hand and a Vara in the other, adorned with white-coloured ornaments and aboard a chariot of ten horses. 3. Contemplate of Mangal with a red necklace, dressed in red-coloured robes, with four arms, carrying Shakti, Shoola, Gada (mace) and Vara and mounted on a lamb. 4. Contemplate of Budh with a yellow-coloured garland, dressed in yellow robes, with four arms, carrying a sword, a shield, a mace and Vara, mounted on a lion. 5. Contemplate of Guru, as yellow complexion and ?ukr of fair complexion, both with four arms, carrying a Danda, Akshasutra, Kamandal and Vara. 6. O Maitreya! Contemplate of ?ani with the lustre, like that of Indraneela, with four arms, carrying Shoola, bow, arrow and Vara, mounted on a donkey. 7. Contemplate of Rahu with a hideous face, with four arms, carrying a sword, a shield, a Shoola and a Vara, blue-coloured and mounted on a lion. 8. There are many Ketus. All of them are of smoky colour, with two arms, carrying a mace and aVara, with a hideous face and mounted on a donkey. 14.All the idols should be so made, that they are 108 fingers tall by one’s own fingers. Notes. Such a measurement is taken from the middle finger. 15-16. Dedicate with devotion to the Grah concerned the flowers and garments of the colour, belonging to him, sandal, Deep, Guggul etc., his metal and the grains, dear to him and distribute all these things to Brahmins to appease the Grah. 17-20. The Mantras of all the Grahas and the prescribed number of their recitation are given below. The recitation of Mantras should be done after worshipping the Grahas, as indicated in verses 15-16. Grah Mantra prescribed number: S?rya 7000, Candr 11000, Mangal 11000, Budh 9000, Guru 19000, ?ukr 16000, ?ani 23000, Rahu 18000, Ketu 17000. 21-22. Havan should be performed with Aak, Palash, Khair, Chirchiri, Pipal, Goolar, Shami wood pieces, Doob and Kush, for S?rya, Candr, Mangal, Budh, Guru, ?ukr, ?ani, Rahu and Ketu, respectively, mixed with honey, Gh?, curd, or milk. The number of offerings to the sacred fire is 108, or 28. 23-24. To appease S?rya and the other eight Grahas Brahmins should be fed with (cream) of rice cooked with jaggery, rice cooked in milk, Havishya, paddy cooked in milk, curd and rice, rice with Gh?, rice cooked with powder of sesame seeds, rice cooked with meat, rice cooked with cereals, respectively. 25. To appease S?rya and other Grahas the things to be given in charity are cow with calf, conch, bullock, gold, robes, horse, black cow, weapons made of iron and goat, respectively. 26-27. The Grah, who is the cause of adverse effects to a person at any time, should be handled by worship and appeasing (of the benevolent ones), because Brahma has blessed the Grahas with the boon “Do to the persons, who worship you”. And the development and progress and downfall of the people and the creation and destruction of the universe are all under the administration and authority of the Grahas. Therefore they are most venerable. Ch. 85. Inauspicious Births 1-4. TheVenerable Sage said. O Maitreya! Now I will describe to you the circumstances, in which the births are inauspicious in spite of Lagn and the Grahas being well disposed. Although Lagn may be well disposed, births will be inauspicious, if they take place on Amavasya (last day of the Krishna Paksha), on Chaturdasi (14th Tithi), in Krishna Paksha (dark half of the month), in Bhadra Karan, in the Nakshatr of the brother, in the Nakshatras of father and mother, at the time of entry of S?rya in a R??i, the time of Pata, at the time of solar and lunar eclipses, at the time ofVyati Pata, in Gandantas of all the three kinds, in Yamaghant,Tithikshaya, in DagdhaYog etc. The birth of a son after three daughters and birth of a daughter after three sons and the birth of a freak are inauspicious. But there are remedial measures for obtaining relief from the evil effects of such births, which are being described in the following chapters. Ch. 86. Remedies forAmavasya Birth 1-9. The Sage Parasara said. O Maitreya!The person, born on Amavasya, is always poverty stricken. It is therefore essential to adopt remedial measures to obtain relief from the evil effects of such births, which are, as follows. Take a Kalash (water vessel) and then put in it fresh leaves of Goolar (wild fig), Vata (banyan), Pipal, mango and Neema (mango) trees and cover it with two pieces of cloth. Then install the Kalash in the South-West direction after reciting … etc. and … etc. Mantras. Then worship the idols of S?rya and Candr, ruling deities ofAmavasya, made of gold and silver, mixed with copper, respectively, by recitation of … etc. Mantras for S?rya and … etc. Mantras for Candr 16, or 5 times. Thereafter perform Havan with 108, or 28 oblations of the mixture of prescribed fuels (…) and cooked food (Charu) with recitation of Mantras of S?rya and Candr. Later sprinkle the water on the child, that is born and his parents and offer in charity gold, silver and a black cow together with feeding the Brahmins, according to one’s means. By performing these remedial rites the child born gains freedom and protection from the evil effects of the birth on Amavasya. Ch. 87. Remedies from Birth on Krishna Chaturdashi 1-3. The Sage said. Divide the span of Chaturdashi in 6 parts. The birth in the first part is auspicious. Second part causes destruction, or death of father. Third part causes death of the mother. Fourth part takes away the maternal uncle. Fifth part destroys the entire family (Khula - generation). Sixth part causes loss of wealth, or destruction (death) of the native. Therefore it is essential to take immediate remedial measures to escape these evil effects. 4-5. Have an idol of Lord Shiva, made of one Karsha (equal in weight to the former silver Rupee) of gold, or of weight one can afford. The idol should have a New Moon on the forehead, have a white garland round the neck, have three eyes (one being on the forehead), be dressed in white robes, be seated on a bull, be two-armed and carryVara and Abhaya. 6-13. Then after invocation with Varun Mantra worship should be performed by chanting … etc. Mantras. Thereafter a Kalash should be placed in the North-East direction with chanting of ‘Imah MaiVarun’, ‘Tan Tva Yami’, ‘Tvan NaiAgni’ Mantras, followed by Japa of … etc. and ‘Bhadra Agni …’ Suktas and the chanting of … Mantra. Then, after sprinkling water over the idol of Lord Shiva (Abhisheka), the nine Grahas should be worshipped.This should be followed by Havan, by using Gh?, powder of sesame seeds, Urda, Sarson and wood pieces of Pipal, Pakar, Palas and Khadir trees. 108, or 28 oblations should be made separately for the nine Grahas. Thereafter, along with chanting of … etc. Mantras, Havan should be performed with sesame seeds for the nine Grahas. Lastly the water of the Kalash should be sprinkled on the native and his parents and the Brahmins should be fed, according to means. Ch. 88. Remedies from Birth in Bhadra and InauspiciousYogas 1-2. The Sage said. O Brahmin! Now I am going to describe the remedial measures for relief from the evil effects of birth in Bhadra, Tithi Kshaya, Vyatipata, Paridha, Vajra etc. inauspiciousYogas andYamaghants etc.The remedial rites should be performed on the day, when the same inauspiciousYog operates again. 3-5. The remedial rites are to be performed in the following order by the parents of the child in the above inauspiciousYogas. Puja of Lord Vishnu and other deities on an auspicious day and auspicious Lagn on the advice of a proficient Jyotishi, burning of Deep with Gh? in a Shiva temple, Abhisheka of Lord Shiva, going round a Pipal tree 108 times prolongs longevity and perform Havan with 108 oblations along with the recital of ‘Vaisneh Raratmachityadhi’ Mantra of Lord Vishnu and feeding Brahmins to the best of one’s means. The observance of these remedial measures will give deliverance to the native from all the evil effects of his inauspicious birth and he will enjoy happiness. Ch. 89. Remedies from Nakshatr Birth 1-7. The Sage Parasara said. O Maitreya! If the birth takes place in the Nakshatras of the brother and the parents, death takes place, without doubt, of the brother and the father, or mother, or they have to undergo death-like suffering.Therefore I am going to describe the remedial measures to be adopted to escape from these evil effects. The remedial rites should be performed in a Muhurta, when Candr and stars are favourable on a day, on which there is no Rikta-Bhadra Dosha. The remedial rites should be performed in the following order. Instal an idol of the Janm Nakshatr on a Kalash in the North-East direction from the fire. Cover it with a red piece of cloth and then warp two pieces of cloth round it. Worship the idol by chanting the Mantras of the Janm Nakshatr. According to one’s Gotra, perform Havan 108 times with the recitation of the same Mantra, facing the fire, with Gh? and other Havan material. Then the priest, performing the Puja, should sprinkle water on the parents and brother (whoever is concerned). Give presents in cash (Dakshena) to the priest and his colleagues, associated with the ceremony, to the best of one’s means and then feed the Brahmins to the best of one’s means. Ch. 90. Remedies from Sankranti Birth 1-2. The Sage said. O Brahmin!The names of the Sankranti on the seven days of the week, beginning from Sunday, are Ghora, Dhavankshi, Mahodari, Manda, Mandakini, Mishra and Rakshasi. The person, born at the Sankranti (entry of S?rya in a new R??i), is poor and unhappy, but he becomes well-to-do and happy, if remedial measures are undertaken. I am now going to describe the remedial measures to nullify these evil effects. 3-6. TheYagya of the nine Grahas should be performed to obtain relief from the evil effects of the birth at Sankranti. A clean spot in the eastern part of the house should be purified by besmearing with cow dung. Then prepare three separate heaps of the following: 5 Dronas (80 Seers) of paddy (Sadhi), 2? Dronas (40 Seers) of rice, 1? Dronas (20 Seers) of sesame seeds (Til). On these heaps of grains make a figure of lotus with eight leaves (Ashtamdhal) and then decorate them with flowers.After doing this, select and invite a priest, who is well versed in the performance of religious rites and recitation of Mantras. 7-18. The religious rites are then to be performed in the following order. Install Kalashas without any holes on all the three heaps and put in each of them water from holy places, Saptamrattika, Shataushadhi, Panchapallava and Panchagavya.Then wrap the Kalashas with pieces of cloth. Place small earthen pots, wrapped with thin cloth, on the Kalashas. Then install the idol of Sankranti along with the idol ofAdhideva and Pratyadhideva. (Here S?rya isAdhideva and Candr Pratyadhideva). Their idols should be placed on either side of the main idols of Sankranti. Two robes may be given, as offering to each of the idols. Perform worship of all the three idols, according to the prescribed procedure. The main idol should be worshipped with the chanting of ‘Trayambakam’, ‘Yajam Hai’ etc., the idol of S?rya with Mantra ‘Ut S?rya’ and the idol of Candr with Mantra ‘Apayayashava’ etc. The worship should be performed with Shodshopchar, or Panchopchar, as may be possible. After touching the main idol, Mrityunjaya Japa should be recited 1008, 108, or 28 times, as may be possible. Make a small platform in the West of the installed Kalashas, kindle fire on it and perform the prescribed rites. Then perform Havan 1008, 108, or 28 times with Samidha, Ghrit (Gh?) and Charu (powder ofTil) within one’s means along with chanting of ‘Trayambakam’ etc. Mantra. 8)Again perform Havan, first with the fuel of sesame seeds along with recitation of Mrityunjaya Mantra. After performing another Svistkrita Havan, sprinkle the holy water on the child born and his parents. Lastly feed as many Brahmins, as one can afford. By performing the remedial rites, described above, the evil effects are nullified and the native and his parents enjoy happiness. Ch. 91. Remedies for Birth in Eclipses 1-14. The Sage said. O Brahmin!A person, whose birth takes place at the time of solar, or lunar eclipse, suffers from ailments, distress and poverty and faces danger of death. Therefore I am going to describe for the benefit of the mankind the remedial measures, required to be undertaken to nullify the above evil effects. The remedial rites are to be performed in the following order. The following idols should be got prepared, according to one’s means: in gold an idol of the deity of the Nakshatr, in which the eclipse takes place (regarding deities of Nakshatras, see ‘notes’ of verse 18, Ch. 3, Vol. I); in gold an idol of S?rya, if the birth takes place during solar eclipse; in silver an idol of Candr, if the birth takes place during lunar eclipse; in lead an idol of Rahu. Besmear a clean spot on the ground (in the house) with cow dung, cover it with a new (unused) beautiful piece of cloth and install the three idols on it. Make offerings of the following to the idols: in case of birth during solar eclipse all things dear to S?rya and red-coloured Akshat (Akshata - rice), red sandal, a garland of red-coloured flowers, red clothes etc.; in case of birth during a lunar eclipse all things dear to Candr and white sandal, white flowers, white clothes etc.; for Rahu blackish clothes, blackish flowers etc.; white flowers for the deity of the Nakshatr, in which the eclipse takes place.The worship should be performed, as follows: of S?rya with the chanting of ‘Akrishnim’ etc. Mantra; of Candr with the chanting of ‘Imadeva’ etc. Mantra; of Rahu with Durva (a kind of grass) and with the chanting of ‘Kayanshicatra’ etc. Mantra. Thereafter Havan should be performed, as follows: with the fuel ofAak wood pieces for S?rya; with the fuel of Palas tree wood pieces for Candr; with Durva for Rahu; with Pipal tree wood pieces for the deity of the Nakshatr. Sprinkle the holy water of the Kalash on the child born (and his parents). Offer worshipful regards to the priest, performing the remedial rites and lastly feed as many Brahmins, as possible within one’s means. By performance of the remedial rites in the manner described above, evil effects of the inauspicious birth are wiped and the native enjoys happiness and is blessed with good fortune. Ch. 92. Remedies from Gandanta Birth 1. The Sage said. O Brahmin! Gandanta is of three kinds, namely ofTithi, Nakshatr and Lagn. Birth, travelling and performance of auspicious functions, like marriage etc., during Gandanta are likely to cause death of the person concerned. 2. O Maitreya!The last 2 Ghatikas of Purna Tithi (5th, 10th, 15th) and the first 2 Ghatikas of NandaTithi (1st, 6th, 11th) are known, asTithi Gandanta. 3. Similarly the last two Ghatikas of Revati and first two Ghatikas ofAshvini, the last two Ghatikas ofAslesha and first two Ghatikas of Magha and the last two Ghatikas of Jyeshtha and first two Ghatikas of Mula are known, as Nakshatr Gandanta. 4. The last half Ghatika of Meen and first half Ghatika of Mesh, the last half Ghatika of Kark and first half Ghatika of Simh, the last half Ghatika ofVrischik and first half Ghatika of Dhanu are known, as Lagn Gandanta. 5.Amongst these Gandantas the last 6 Ghatikas of Jyeshtha and first 8 Ghatikas of Mula are known, asAbhukta Mula. 6-8. Now I will tell you the remedial measures to be adopted to release the child, born during Gandanta, from its evil effects. The father should see the child born only on the morning next to the end of the days of Sutaka, or on any auspicious day after the performance of the remedial measures. The remedial measures are giving a bullock in charity in the case ofTithi Gandanta, giving a cow with calf in charity in the case of Nakshatr Gandanta, giving gold in charity in the case of Lagn Gandanta, performing Abhisheka of the child along with father, if the birth is in the first part of Gandanta and along with mother, if the birth is in the second part of Gandanta. 9-11. Performance of Puja on the holy Kalash of the idol of the deities ofTithi (in case ofTithi Gandanta), Nakshatr (in case of Nakshatr Gandanta) and Lagn (in case of Lagn Gandanta), made of 16 Masas, 8 Masas, or 4 Masas of gold, as may be possible, followed by Havan and Abhisheka, according to procedure already described earlier. At the end as many Brahmins, as may be possible within one’s means, should be fed.These remedial measures will ensure long life, good health and prosperity for the child. Notes. Unless one is himself fully conversant with the performance of religious rites, the remedies, recommended in this chapter, earlier and later chapters, should be got performed by and under the directions of a learned priest, because the full effects will be derived, if the rites are performed correctly and according to the procedure, prescribed in the religious scriptures on this subject. Ch. 93. Remedies forAbhukta Mula Birth 1-2. The Sage Parasara said. The ruling deity of Jyeshtha is Indra and the ruling deity of Mula is Rakshasa.As both the deities are inimical to each other, this Gandanta is considered, as the most evil. A boy, or girl, born during the period ofAbhukta Mula, should either be abandoned, or the father should not see the face of the child for 8 years. Now I shall describe the remedial measures to obtain deliverence from the evil effects of birth during this extremely inauspicious period. 3-4. In view of the extremely inauspicious effects of birth during Abhukta I shall first describe the remedial measures to obtain relief from Mula. The religious remedial rites should be performed after the 12th day after the birth, the next Janm Nakshatr day, or on an auspicious day, when Candr and the stars are favourable. 5-8. Erect a canopy (Mandap) with four arched gateways, embellished with festoons, on a sacred spot, besmeared with cow dung paste, to the East, or North of the house. Prepare there a pit (Kund), or place there a square vessel of clay, or metal for performing Havan. Then, according to one’s means, prepare, or get prepared an idol of Rakshasa of 16, 8, or 4 Masas of gold, as may be possible within one’s means. The idol should be with a horrible-looking face, black in colour, with two heads, two arms, carrying a sword and a shield and seated on a dead body. 9. In the absence of an idol a piece of gold of the weight, mentioned above, should be used for worship, as gold is dear to all the deities. 10-20. Thereafter the remedial rites should be performed in the following order. Select a learned priest to perform the religious rites, according to the prescribed procedure. Install a Kalash and put in it Panchagavya (five articles, yielded by a cow, namely milk, curd, Gh?, dung and urine), Shataushadhi and water of the holy river (Ganga etc.). Then install the idol of the Rakshasa of Mula, facingWest, on an earthen pot (Dhata) with one hundred tiny holes.After placing bamboo leaves on it, perform the worship of the idol by offering it white flowers, sandal and clothes etc.Also perform worship of its Adhideva Indra and Pratyadhideva Jal. Then perform Havan to appease the deities. According to one’s means, 1008, or 108 oblations should be offered in the Havan. After this to obtain deliverence from death Mrityunjaya Mantra etc. should be recited and prayers offered to all the deities for the purpose ofAbhisheka.The father, mother and the child should thereafter take bath from the water of the two Kalashas. Then the parents, dressed in white clothes and with white sandal paste, besmeared on their foreheads, should give a cow with calf, as a Dakshina to the chief priest and feed the other priests and Brahmins, according to one’s means. Lastly, after reciting the ‘Yatapapan’ etc. (see verse 19) Mantra, the father, mother and the child should see the reflection of their faces in the (melted) Gh?. By the performance of the remedial rites in the manner described all evil effects of the birth during Abhukta Mula are completely wiped out. Ch. 94. Remedies from Jyeshtha Gandanta Birth 1-5. The Sage said. O Maitreya! Now I will describe to you the remedial measures to be adopted to ensure relief from the evil effects of Jyeshtha Gandanta.The erection of a canopy (Mandhup), installation of Kalash, selection of a priest etc. will be done in the same manner, as has been recommended for the Abhukta Mula in the previous chapter. In this ceremony Indra will be the deity-in-chief, Adhideva will beAgni and the Pratyadhideva will be Rakshasa. 1. Then the remedial rites should be performed in the following order. Install on a Kalash, full of paddy rice, an idol of gold with Indra, seated on Airavat with Vajra Ankusha in his hands. Perform worship of the chief deity Indra along with that of the Adhideva and the Pratyadhideva with the recitation of their appropriate Mantras. Perform Havan,Abhisheka and then feed the Brahmins in accordance with one’s means. In addition to the above, after doing Indrasukta and Mrityunjaya Japas, prayers may be offered to Indra.These measures will wipe out the evil effects of the Gandanta. 1. In case the performance of remedial rites, described above, is beyond the means of any person, he should give a cow in charity. This will also appease the deities and promote relief from the evil effects of the Gandanta. Because the giving of a cow in charity has been considered a superior remedial measure than giving in charity all the lands, belonging to a person. 8-9. According to prescribed remedial measures, 3 cows are to be given in charity in the case of Jyeshtha-Mula and Aslesha-Magha Gandantas, 2 cows in Revati-Ashvini Gandantas and 1 cow in other Gandantas, or in any inauspiciousYog. If cow, or cows are not available, their actual value should be given in cash to a Brahmin. 10.A girl, born in Jyeshtha Nakshatr, destroys (is the cause of death of) the elder brother of her husband and a girl, born in fourth quarter ofVishaka Nakshatr, destroys her husband’s younger brother. Therefore a cow should be given in charity at the time of the marriage of such girls to wipe out the above-mentioned evil effects. 11-13. A boy, or girl, born in the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th quarter ofAslesha Nakshatr, destroys his/her mother-in-law and a boy, or a girl, born in 1st, 2nd, or 3rd quarter of Mula Nakshatr, becomes the destroyer of his/her father-in-law. Therefore suitable measures, as may be possible within one’s means, should be taken at the time of the marriage of such boys and girls. There will be no evil effect, if the husband has no elder brothers. Ch. 95. Remedies from Birth of a Daughter afterThree Sons 1-2. The Sage said. O Brahmin! I will now tell you about other kinds of inauspicious births. The birth of a daughter after the birth of three sons, or the birth of a son after the birth of three daughters is ominous for both the maternal and paternal families of such children.Therefore remedial measures, described below, may be taken to get deliverance from these evil effects. 3-9. The rites should be performed on the morning next to the last day of Sutak, or on any other auspicious day in the following order. After selecting a priest and some Brahmins to perform the remedial religious rites, the priest, after paying obeisance to the nine Grahas, should install four Kalashas on a heap of paddy, place the idols of Brahma, Vishnu, Mahesha and Indra, made of gold, on them and perform their worship in the prescribed manner. A Brahmin (an assistant of the priest), after taking bath etc., should recite four Rudra Suktas and the whole of Shanti Sukta. The priest should perform Havan with Samidha, Gh? and sesame seeds 1008, 108, or 28 times with the recitation of the prescribed Mantras of Brahma,Vishnu, Mahesha and Indra. Svistkrata and Purnahuti and Abhisheka of the child with his family should be done and presents in cash should be given to the priest and his assistants, according to one’s means. The Brahmins should be fed.The father and the mother of the child should see their reflections in the Gh?, kept in a bronze vessel. Lastly grains and clothes should be distributed to the poor and the needy. By the performance of the above remedial rites the evil effects are wiped out and the child and his parents etc. enjoy happiness. Ch. 96. Remedies from Unusual Delivery 1-3. The Sage said. O Brahmin! I will now tell you about inauspicious and unusual deliveries by women, which are ominous for the village, town and the country. These may be of the following kinds. Delivery of a child 2, 3, or 4 months earlier, or later from the approximate due date. Delivery of a child without hands, feet, or any other limbs, without head, or with two heads. Delivery of an animal-shaped being by a woman, or a human-shaped being by an animal. 4-5. Deliveries of these kinds by women, or cows etc. in a house are ominous for all the members of the family, living there. Therefore remedial measures are essential for obtaining relief from their evil effects. The best remedial measure will be to abandon (turn out from the Bhava) such women and animals (cows, mares etc.). 6-9. It is considered inauspicious for a girl to become pregnant, or to deliver a child in her 15th, or 16th year from birth. If a cow delivers, when S?rya is in Simh, or a female buffalo delivers, when S?rya is in Makar, they are disasterous to their owner and the person, who looks after them. Therefore either such cow, or buffalo should be given away to a Brahmin, or suitable remedial measures should be taken to escape from the above-mentioned evil effects. The remedial measures to be adopted are the same, as given in verses 3-9 in Ch. 95. 10. Thus, whenever there is any kind ofAristha, adoption of appropriate remedial measures will ensure long life, happiness and prosperity for the person concerned. Ch. 97. Conclusion 1-4. Maharishi Parasara said. O Brahmin! I have described to you the Jyotish Shastra, as narrated by Lord Brahma to the Sage Narada and by Narada to Shaunaka and other Sages, from whom I received the knowledge of this Shastra. I have narrated the same Jyotish Shastra, which I learnt from them. Do not impart the knowledge of this Shastra to one, who is insignificative, slanders, or calumniates others, nor to one, who is not intelligent, is wicked and unknown to you. Teach this supremeVedanga Jyotish Shastra only to one, who is gentle and amiable, devoted, truthful, brilliant and well known to you. 5-6. Only that person, who possesses adequate knowledge of time and the positions of Grahas and Nakshatras, can understand this Hora Shastra. Only that person, who has complete knowledge of the Hora Sastra and who is truthful, can make correct favourable, or unfavourable predictions. 7. One, who reads, or listens with attention and devotion to this most excellent Hora Shastra, becomes long-lived and is blessed with increase in his strength, wealth and good reputation. 8-9. Thus was narrated by Mah?rishi Par??ara to Maitreya this novel Hor???stra, containing invaluable and uncommon material from ancient scriptures on Jyotish, for the benefit of the world at large. Afterwards it came into usage on the earth and received reverence from all. 10-25. In these verses have been described the subject matters of all the chapters, contained in this book and their importance.This information has been given in detail in the Table of Contents in Volumes I and II of this book. 