This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project to make the world’s books discoverable online. It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difﬁcult to discover. Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this ﬁle -a reminder of this book’s long journey from the publisher to a library and ﬁnally to you. Usage guidelines Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. We also ask that you: + Make non-commercial use of the ﬁles We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these ﬁles for personal, non-commercial purposes. + Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. + Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each ﬁle is essential for informing people about this project and helping them ﬁnd additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. + Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any speciﬁc use of any speciﬁc book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. About Google Book Search Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web at http://books.google.com/ HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY Digitized by Google HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY Digitized by Google Digitized by Google Digitized by Google Digitized by Google Digitized by Goosle THE BRIHAT JATAKA o, VARAHAMIHIRA. TBANBLATJCDINTO ENGLISH Dt N. CHIDAMBAR.A.MIYER,B. A,, F, T, s. .' FOUNDER TIRUVA~I JOTISTANTRA SABHA. jllabta1: 'MIIEU:J> A'I TBB JOSTJn FHF8, 28 BtJNDAlL'a BOAD, '!l'Utt. 1885. Digitized by Google Ind L 3bl0.'-/,'} Digitized by GoogIe Tnnt is probably not one aubjeot which is ao ill un.aeratood, whioh so many people pretend to know, and on which so tnany arc prepared to exptea an opinion, as· the subject of Aatrolog7. The Indinn proverb truly says that there is no man who is nnt a bit of a physician and an astrologer J and it is equally t.rue that there is n<>subject which is so ill uudersto<•d as these two. The foct is that tl1e .Lroad ml'clical and nst,·ologicn.l principles at·e so tna.ny that everybody of necessity learns a few of these, bui experiences a difficulty in mastering all of them, It would be interesting to note the vnrious subjects with wbich astrology is confounded, Persons with well• developed intuitions are often found to make correct pre" dictions of events. '!'he Yogis are persons of this descrip.tion. Their peculinr knowledge is certainly not the result of any siudy of nstl'ologioal works. We also find a.nother class of men -wbo imitnte these men and also make st1·ikiog ,tatement.. Birmingham gold is often taken for stel'ling gold J German silver for pul'e silver Jand we have I\ va,·iety of inferior atones, whik-t red nnd green that are often mistaken for dfomonds, rubies and emeralds. '!'he world is full of this dual chn.racter of things. Every depnrt.meut of fu·uo knowledge bus its inferior counterpart J and so we have I\ number of men who, posseasiug no occult powers, but aecoriug tho help of a few element.al spirits, practise imposition on the ignorant public. Bot the world is not without a touchstone to detect the hollowness of their pre.tensions: these men "ill give you a few correct particulan regarding remote put eveI1ts, a great deal of particulars re• Digitized by Google JMTBODlJCTIOtf, garding preseot events, one or two particulars r&.garding the immediute future, and no particulars at alt about the cHstnnt future. I l1ave known these men ancl tested the tmtli or their statements. 'l'bese meo pretend to be astrologe,·s. Some of them cnr'ry DO books at ull and make amazing statements touching past events iii prose a11d verse in an extempore sing-song fashion and wilhout the lenst effort, even though the questioner is a pt-tfect stranger; wliile others show you some lmge Antique carljl\n book and pretend to read from its pages. This was exttctly the way in which Col. Olcott's questions were recently an.swered by tbe Bral1min astrologer who pretended to read from the pages of the -works of the Great Bbeemakavi ~vide ' May, 1885, issue of the Theosophist). I am sure that nei.ther Col. Olcottfnor bis intelligent friends e\"er l1ad a look into the book to see whether wl1at was l'ead out was really w.ritten there, and if so, whether the writing was not a fresh one. In all these cases the astrologer, if he is one at all, doggedly refuses to allow others to look into his book ; for, he says, he is not • pe1·mitted by the book deity to do so I There is a more wonde1-ful man in Pondioherry nt present. He pretends to 1·eaJ from the. works of Naudikeswara, Such astrologers are making vast sums of money. The statements they make are . 1·eaUy puzzling ones, But for these and the way in which they are made, the utter want of preparation and the like, I sl1ould l1ave been inclined to disca1·d the element ot' the help of the elomentol spirit&. Let tho~ewho would object to this, examine the matter and then pronounce an opiuion, Notl1ing can be more funny than to find young men especinlly, taking: up astrology as thoh-first sul,ject of attack iu their public uttemnces. It is a subject to which they pay little or no attention except for pt11·posesof ridi.• cule, To all your qutetions, how do you pruve this date• Digitized by Google .,nrr&ODVCTIO•• ment and how do you prove that: _their one rendy rerly is that their common sense tells them 10. They forget thnt common sense is a eenee which chl\nges in its nature as one advances in bis study, nnd it ehangee llo much that the common sense of one age is different from-the common aense of another ag~. the commonseaae of oue nation. or of one individual is dift'erent from the common sense of ano.ther nation or individ11al. Where proof is advnBced by a fe,v, it i11 eqnnlly iutel-esting to e:s:a~ine U. The proof is that suclt and such astrologers made sueh and such pre·• dictions and that· the predictions lu,ve failed-and ergo, astrology is oo acienoe I n is evidently taken for grante<l that the a!'Jtrologer was roolly lenruecl in t.he acienct>, and that there were not those numerous errors of data to miislead him, · Another objection to the science is that aslrologicnJly the fortunes of two persons born at the same moment; of time but in the opposite quart.era of the globe, must be ·the same, but that they c,mnc,t be and are not the aame. Here ia an ignorance betra,ed regarding the elementary principles of the science. It is tl'ue f;hat the planetary positions are nearly tho 8&Dle except for the 8Dlall m11f;ter of par!'llax. But it ia not the planets alone that go f;o ah11pe one's fortunes. Time of bil'th, which' is represented by the L1Lg11aor the rising sign, bas a great deal to do wiLh it. In other words, b1:1co.u1ethe local times of the two places are diff t!rent, the lngoas must be differt!nt; for when the 20t.h degree c,f Leo, for ioatance, is in contact with the horizon here, the 20th degree of Aquaries will be in contact with the horizon of out' just antipodes at the same moment. Our ri&ing sign is their setting sign, anJ our setting sign is their risiug aigq; so that a.difference of longitude gives a ditfereooe of local time and oonsequently a dift'e1·euce of Lagoa. But sup• p.>aot9~pl..oes to }Jave \he l!Amf longitude, Take two Digitized by Google IlO'BODUCTIOlf; plaoea for instance on the same meridian and therefore dae north and south of ea.ch otber. Now the queation ia wbetbe1· the Lagoa is the aauul fo1· botl1 the places. No, The· Lagua is a point in tbe eclip(io whiob is inclined to the . equator. The planes of the borizon of the two plaoea are different and they cut different parts of the ecliptic, It . therefore follows that a diffurenoe of latitude gives a diff't:r.ence in the Lagua. So that places_with a ditfe1·ence or either longitude or latitude or with both cannot have the same Lagua at the same time. That Lugno. 01· mere time or space, irrespective of the planets, has a great deal to do with shap.ing the fortunes of a native 01· Jataki will be a new revela.tion to moat people. We will come to this snbjeot pre• sently. A horoscopio diagram or tigu1·e of the heavens 1·epresents both local time or Lagna and plunetary positions. What then is A11trology or HoroscopyPWhat is ita nature and what ita bounds PHere i1 ·the author's definition of horqsoopy. . ,.1U1;>t,1~~iri nfir1!1t~if•'"11T't.1 ll~fflfri,-•~il~T~'fllfl'lll1'nill1tfi:l1QifTII II , Horoscopy is stated to be the scienoe of ..4horatrior the .eience of. day and night-these beiug the broadest visible divisions of ti1ne-multiples of which give ·weeks, mouths, years, &o., and divisions of which give hours, minutes, seconds,&c.The fil'st letter A, and the last letter tt.i, having been da·opped, the term ho.a assumed the shape of hon, and the aut.hor says that Aora. Shastri\ t,reats ,,f iho effuets of the good and bad deeda of an individnal in bis p1·evioua birth l so that the moment a person is bMu, it. become~ his lut to enjoy nnd snffor oe1·$:~inpleaaures aud painlf for.hiw pad 100d and bad deeds-aeed:1 oiut hito tuo cosmic rc,gioo ill Digitized by Google lftlODVC'l'IO•. one birih begin t.obear sweet and sour fruits in· another birth according to their quality. In this connection we umy any a.few words touching the long di~puted quei,tion of fatalism tisr,u, ft·ee-will. Pet• sons of th«' former school hold that even the miuut.est events of oue'a life are pre-ordained, 11nd tl,at mnn ia completely a puppet in the bands of certain higher ageuciea, Thia error has evidently been the result of the observation of a number of well projeoted efforts in particulnr directions having been thoroughly discomfited. Agnin, men of tbe othor school l1old that man is a free 11gent, and tbat there is nothing impracticable for him if only p1·oper meaua are employed for the purpose. This error agt1iu bas been the. result of the observation of even ill projected efforts in particular dit-eo.tioos, proving highly auCCflssful-the failures, if auy, being accounted for by the insufficiency of the means employed. In the one c111eman becomes an inesponsible agent; and in the other he not only boolteHly grieves over his failures, _but repeats his attempts, ~bus putting himself to trouble, expense and vexatiou only to fail agnin. Now, as regards the former position, it is held th,-.t man's pre.sent deeds are all the effects of hia previous deeds. As free agency of nny sort is discarded f1·om the question, it would folJow that these previona deeds a.re the effect.a of deeds still more previous, and so 011, ad i11finitum,or till we are bl'onght to a state of cosmic evolutiou when differences of states nod oonditioos were infused int.o bnman souls by the Creat.or.Such, condition of irresponsibility is opposed to reason, oppOSl:ld to progress, and eqnally opposed t.o divine and human law. It is a· very pernioioaa doctrine i11 the extreme. Asregards the IBtter view, if man oaowholly al,ape his own fot·tuncs,how ure we to Aecount for the plienomena· of 1ufferillJ virtue 111d the e11jo1i1•gvice in oerlain ·C&liea-• Digitized by Google JJTIODt!C'fIO•, • I for tl1e former reaping no rewards Rnd the latter eeca)iog punir.hment. A aatisfaotory e~planatioll would point to the fo1·mer a11 being the tiftaotaof previou, kaMna,aml tho !utter as deeds fop wbioh mun will both suffer, and enjoy in hia next life, Taking entire owuhuman life into coo11idel'11t.ion,.oua· opinion is th,it ma~ is both a 111lave·of tlie effects of his p"st deeds and is a free.-agent as a·egtards frellih independent deeds -deeds wbiob a1·e in no wny directed to thwa,·t, to arrest, to. •lter odn any way to1nodify orremonld the effects of liis past k<,nna. But if he wishes to 111ove along with tho curreut, he niay do so, auJ the course will beco111emore eaRy aud more smooi'h. 'J'his view will account for u,;·ee things I (1)' the many app,u·ently unaccountabla failures of attepipts even when the menus employed have been I good; (2), the easy succeea iht lias 1iLtended 1Q11ny an effor~ when lihe menns employed were eveQ w~ak ; (:J), tho success whioh in cert.a.in ouea app,ars p1·opo1·tionateto Jubor. In the that CIU3P1 the attempt was ot1e aj Died at moving a.gaiust the cnrrent of fate ; hi the seoon,1 case it wus one or moving down with the cur1-ent, and in •be third case it was moUon Oil still water, ,.here and wbero alone fa~e bttma11 age11cy can diapl11y itself. Having pt'emised so much, ~e may now proceed a step further and st11te that where the ourreot is a weak one running with the coune of n Leena, it mip:ht be opposed, and such opposition JDay be either direct or oblique acool'd• ing to the ih,oeSlf and strength of the means eruployed, and tl~nt the task woi1Jd become a dilfioult one, if the coarse to be resisted should flow with the course of a Tigris. The ·question ie purely a question of lcarmio .dyn11mios-effect11 or past karma as opposed to prei,en~ karrna. '.l.10 oppose evea au oppo3iQle force , one must 61-st posaeaa o. knowledge of its strength an4 direc>tio~ ot uotiort, a~d S@Ql~<llf, a kuowledge of the prop«al' Digitized by Google nttao»ttcriow. 1 •!beansto be empio1ed. for the purpose. 'l'lie former know.ledge is supplied to man by RSt,l'Ology,and (,he latter by such works as the Kat·m11.vipaka (}ra:11dh11. The menus prescribed in the latter consist of gift~, of Japa (psychic training or development,) 11nd certai;, fil'e O'ere.monies having 1m occult sigrtificance,' It follow, whete the ourrent is irresistiblo,the attempt to oppoee 'it. becomes fut.ile. How can a person evet· hope to 1tin success in 11,field when he is ignorant of the direction of sttnok as 'Well as tho sttength of his enemy. Astrology not only points out to him his ene• mies bnt his friends as welJf whose help he might seek and obtain. By pointing oat fields where there are friends nnd fields where thol'e are f oes1 nstrology in,Jireetl.t poitits out to bi01 neutral fields where man's free 11gency bas its· full 1oopeof action and where success is proportiou•te to lnbor. The ne:.tt important question for conside1·ation is the exdmination of f;he connection, if Bn1, bet,ve.en the pis.nets and human fo1•t.unes: where Oiatl suffers and e11joy11tl,e fruits of his pa.st kn1mn; the q11estio11 uaked is ,that p,~rt the planet, play iu such humna 1mfferi11goud t111joyinent. Hel'e ogRin believe,·s in. netl'ology ns a l!Oieuce are divided into two• schoob.The 01ie admit active 11gency for the plant>t11,nnd the other, denying it, state that the pla~ets Llindly 1111d meohaJii .. • oally iudicate the current of hriu1an destinies. J11 support of the latter view, it is stated that if ht_1man 1:1ufferiug and enjoyment are directly t1·aceuble to tnan's previous kal'ma, then; to admit. active agency OD the pHtli of the planets, becomes not only 11uperfiuous, but iuconsiRte:tll, : if A man loses his son, it is because, they SI\Y, he suffet·s for his karma~ which inighli consist io bis hBvi11g caused II similar affliction to o. somebody in his previoutt Lfrth, and not; beoau~e Mal'& occupied the 5t,h house from the n1<·eodnnt or :U.gn_a at the moment of birth, and lhat. the1'.efore t,he planetary po1it.ion1only indicate and do not bring • about Digitized by Google ..s INTBOl>UCTJOtr. human suft'ering or enjoyment. 'l'bese people from a baIQ&Jl point or view cannot conceive the possibility or more causes thnn one fo1· an event~ach. caufle actiug ,independently and with full force. ~Hinclu lite,·ature is. full':or events, each of which is the immediate effect•·or11,'nnmbe1· of causes, This peonliar combination of oanaea, quite· incomprehensi• ble to us, is a feature which distinguishes divine deeds frotn huml\n deeds. • We will quote an instance 01·.,two .. Ganga w~s Cllrsedto pass through a:~bnmau incamation; the Ashtn. (eight) Vnsus bronghb on themselves a shnilnr curse-of the eight V1tst1sseven·wore allowed to return to Swargn immediately after birth_; Raj" Sautanu goes ouf; on a hunting excursion, mat'l'ies Oaugn., whom he finds on the banki. of the Ganges, on condition of her being allowed to quit him the moinent be opposes he1• o,vn mode of dis• posing of the issue of their union. Eight cliildl'en are born in n.11. The mother throws the first se,·en of them iuto the Giingee; the king puts up ~jth this fol' the love of tha lady. He can bP-ar no more inhuman work of the sort and so he resists; Ga11ga qnite her lord le11,vingthe babe-the futnre .Bheeshma of the M11habhar11t, Again, King Daanrntha goes out to hunt aud enters " deuse forest; be11l'i11gsoma gur .. gliug souml in hi11 11eighbourl1ood, 1111d mist.akiug U to be that. of a wild. elephant in tbs 119t.ol' drinking wute1•, the. king dh1cliarge11 bis arrow in its direction and kills a lad who was dipping hill bow 1 into the wuters of n stream t_o carry it to bis aged p,u·eots at some distunce.· The cries or t~e dying lad brought. home to the king his erro1·, and the next moment the king himself proceeds to t,he lud's father and \'nt1·t-ats pardon .. This• venernble old man expires on the spot pronouuoing~a curse ·.on the king-rather rea<iing the king'd fate t.1,at in his old age he !!hall die 11, similar death fro,n grief on accouut of his son's sopat'ation. In the meanwhile Viahu11 himself draws on his own bead the Digitized by Google I:11Tlt0D1'CTIOH, . 9 curse 0£ a human incarnation, attended wilh mnch J..nftering from separation from wife,··from. the sage Bhl'igu, whose wife he killed when she ~fused to deliver up to his wrath an Asura who · had ' sought her pro~ction. The Devas suft'eri.ng much from Ravana and bis gian.t hosts proceed to Vishnu and .entrea'li rttlief. As BrBhma had granted to •Ra.van& the boon of exemption from death from all exoepfl from men and monkeys, and as Dasaratba had, prayed t6 Vishnu for the blessing of a son, Vishnu enters on ltia human incarnation asRama, the son of Dasaratha. From . family dissensions· he quits his kingdom and enters the forest· of Dnndaka with his bride, Grieved at his son's I separation, Dasa.ratba dies. Ravana. carries awlly Seela and; Rama is grieved at her separation. He proceeds to Lanka, slays his enemy and recovers his wife. ' M011t of the eminent astronomers of the East and West believed in a double Sun, a double Moon, Mars and other ~la.nets-the one is the Sthole. or the physical one, and the other is the Sukshma or the astral o~e. The. difficulty in conceiving ~tive agency as possessed by the planets when' viewed in the light of huge inert balls, will be removed wil,en we suppose that each planet possesses a soul. Besides; there is nothing repugnant to our mind,in ~he idea that the plane ls togethe~ form a body. of exeouti ve officers charged with the duty of rewarding and punishing humanity for their past karma by the command of • tl:1.e Most High, who at the same time allows eaoh man the ohanoe to i~prove his own condition by making him a free a.gent in m&DJ matters. A man is whipped for theft by the order of the .Magistrate. He • suffers for his karma~the deed of theft. But the whipping officer is an active agent. Take another instance : A man doos a piece of valuable service to the state ; the sovereign commends a looal officer to invest tq.e person wi~h the order of k°'ighthood ; the officer obeys ; 2 Digitized by Google INT~QDUOTIOR. the offi®r no doubt i11a1;1 active agent, though the honor was the immediate effect of the person's services. We there• fo~ hold that planets not only indicate human destinies, but bring about euch dfstinies. The world is a mixed field of honor, of puniebme11t and of probation. And the planets are the rewarding and ohaatisipg otfioere, and ?Qeddle it~ no way when man exercises hie free will within its own sphere. ',fhe same idea might be rep1·esented in another way : pla.neta.l'y activity is tqe total activity of a number of forces, some for good an~ some for ,vii, and while I man's karma leads him into the one force or the C>tber, there are other forees by a knowledge of which man may benefit himself, though it may not be his lo~ to be drawn into any of them by hie past , ka~a. If \his were not the correct view of tho part played by the planets; n larg.e portion of the science of astrology, in which man is advised to avail himself of sach and such planetary poeitioi:s for particular purposes, wonl<l become u1:1eless. The planets the1·efore can be made to do m,ore than the work of jailors and rewardiog offioera. For ,inet.anoe, in the fourth chapter (Brihat Jataka) which treats of Nisheka (conception), a man is advised to avail himself of partionlar planetary positions if be desires an excellent issue: ~ Parasara, who was a great astronomer and astrologer, finding that snob an hour fot Nisheka h~ approach.ed, joioed a boat.man's daughter in an i1:ilandon the Jumna and the issue was the greut Vedavy&11&, A Brahmin astrologer under similar circumstances joined a potter's daughter, and the issue was the great Salivahana. That man is not altogether a. free agent is an idea caught by Shakespeare in one _of his well known passages io '' As You Like It." "All th9 world ia a stage, Aud all the meo and women merely playen J They have their eitits and their eotranoea, And one man io hia dme plays IIWIJ part,, Hia acts being 118YOnages." Digitized by Google iNTJWDUCTION, 11 Again, while the heavens fotm the macrocosm, man is the microcQSm, In other words, e60h man is a Jilile world ~xactly representing the Universe. While all seems quiet without., there is au active world within. Such a world is visible to the inner aigbt of a Yogi, Occult science treating of this subject says:.'Jll'i'J'Slif~Tll ~~'l'"iis,,n , 611'1~1ff~T~... "'~tlflq~l{ • If the Praoavayu ("'.ital air) can be taken to the Sushm• nanadi,eight eorts of muiic will be heard, and fire, lightning, stars,the moon and the sun will become visible. Again, in· Chapter IV, already .referred to, Varaha Mihira .BRYS tbat menstrual discharges ooourin women when Mars and the Moonapproach each other. In oonnecUun wiih this sub.ject the author of Sa.ravali says as' f ollowa :-· ~.iiwenf11: 1Arfit11111fim~,rm r. . .. 1[if~fifwfq1W1A:11: """""~-.n-s• "The M.oon is· water and Mars is fire; bile is the result of a mixture of 6.re ·and water, and when bile mixes with the blood, menses appear in women." So that with the oliange tbat is going on wiihouf., there is a' change going on within, and every element or bit of' man's· physical body has its representative' in the \ Digitized by Google IKTIODUCTION. heaveDB• Snoh being the case, there . i, a subtle connec.tion, imperotiptible because subtle, bet.ween the.conditions of the planets and the stars above and those of man below. We shall now say a few . words touching the causes of failure of astrological 'prediotiona : the most important of these we will take up firat. I Astrology 1·ests on astronomy. The latter science was probably in o. good condition at the time of Vika·amo.rka. The tables for the calculation of the pJaoes or the planets which were then framed or then in use, were all suit.ad to the time. Owing probably to the wear and tear of the several working p-.rts of the wh~le machinery of the Solar system, the tables of one age are unsuited to another age, To this truth the ancient Hindu astronomers were keenly alive. They have accordingly laid down this broad tole for the gaidan~e of the future astronomers. •frfffliqt11T~1"1'ftfff',;~ •""\11111iltllitj~tcRf?f D MtfN1{10fT1'"{~l:fcli'Ti' fir,~~c,,.q~,:a~: •II.. . . Since error in oaloulation is as sinful asthe murder of a Brahmio, the correct places' of the planets shall be ascer.tained by daily meridian observations. And this cannot be done withootan Observatory. Ob.servatories of some sort did exist in this land; but owing to foreign invasions and the want of encouragement on the· part ofralers, the saience has ceased to progress, and the for.mer tables for want of corrections ha Te become useless~ The ealendat'I therefore prepared by the native utrologers do Digitized by Google 18INTBQDtrOTION, not give the true places of the planets. The error bas been going on for the last 1000 years." The nautical al~anacs prepArid in Europe and Am~ rica give very correct'positions·of the planets; and MeSBrs. Bapu Devn. Sastry ofBenares, Lakshmana Chatrai or Poona, Raghnnatb11 Chariar of Madras, and V encateswara Deeksbi.bt· and Sundareswara Srouty of Combaoonum have started almanacs bnsiog their calculation on the correct modem tables. These tables enable us to . ascertain correctly the places of the planets from the Vernal Equinog:, one of the two points where the ecliptic outs the equator, This point is tho Western first point of Aries. It has a ·1·etrograde motion at the rate or about 60'' a year. B.~t the liindn first point of Aries is the fixed star Revati (the Yogatara of the group) which is stated to be on the ecliptic. This star is at present about 20° to the East or the Vernal Eqni.11ox. Planetary places from this star are known as the Nirayana, .Bphuta,m. and places from the Vernal Equinox are known·aa the 8ayaM Sphutam. • The little 1,it of ·increas.ing space between the two points is known a.a.Ayancim,a. Now Hindu astrology rests on the Nirayana Spbntam of the planets, and modern tables give us the correct Sayana Sphuta.q.; so that ir the length or the Ayanamsa .is correctly known, it may be subtracted from the Sayana Sphutam, and the remainder will be the NirayRna Sphub.m required. Bat the exact length of the Ayanamsa is uot known, and it cannot be ascertained by direct observation, because the star Revati has disappeared. I have treated. of this subject at some length in tho April (1883) iesue of the. Theo•ophut, The several almanacpublishers already referred to have arbi.trarily assumed different lengths of the Ayanamsa, evidently to snit their own convenience. These. l~ngths of tbe· Aya• namsa on the 1st January 1888 are :.Digitized by Google . u INTRODUCTlOH. q , ,, (1) Bombay Almanac 18 14. 20 (2) Madras } d O 22 a 89(8) Oombaoonum .. • (4) Benaree do ... ...21 58 29· (6) Vakbya do ... ... 22 41 44t (6) Siddhanta do , .. ... 20 46 15 I have discovered the trne length to range between 20° 28' 8'' and 20° 25' 22" on the lat January 1888. By adopting the mean, namely, 20° 24' lo" the maximnm &mount of error will only be l' 7". Now the difference between the correct Ayanamsaand the various Ayanamaae above given will be seen . from the following :.o· r II (1) Bombay -2 9 55 (2) Madras } ... + 1 88 243) Combnoonum1 +1 34, u4~ Benares li Vakya + 2 17 29 (6) Siddhanta +o 22 0 To-express the same in other words. The Ayanamaa erl'or as it aft'eota the planetary·poaitione in point of time in the first four almanacs will be foq,od to be as follows:..  clay.  hour .  day.  hoar,  day.  hOUI'.  Bun ...  ... ...  2  6  1  16  1  l4t  Moon ...  ...  ...  0  4  0  8  0  3  Mara .. ,  ... ...  4,  8  3  8  8  0  Mercury  ...  ...  0  13  o·  10  0  9l  Jupiter  ...  ...  26  0  19  17  18  21  Venus  ...  9  1  0  0  23  Saturn  ••• 11 ... ... 64,  16  48  28  46  20  Moon's node ...  ...  40  21  81  0  29  16  KadruandBombay Benare1OombaoonumPlaneta. (before) (after)(after) ' Digitized by Google IJITBODVOTIOS, 15 So t.bat it.is evident that horoscopes constructed on the planetary J)offitions as found in the existing almanacs are wrong. Again, in the construction of horoscopes, the following wrong table showing the Raaiman&or time or oblique ascen.sion of the Zodi~oal signs above the horizon is adopted nearly throughout the Jand by a great majority of ignorant aatro-· logers. Aries  ...  Ghatik...'. •  Libra  ...  Ghatibl, 5  Taurus Gemini  ...  4f0,i  8oorpio Sagittary  .. .  oi 51  Cancer  ...  61  Capricorn  5.  Leo Virgo  ...  6. 5  Aquariua Pisces  4,f 4.  The reader is referred to the Appendix for a correct table for all the plaoea of India• A third cause of failur~ is an ignorance of the local •time. The pt"eaent days· are days of clocks and watches, and these are luxuries confined to our towns and do not extend to our villages, Besides, these clocks and watches are rarely made to show the local time. Io most of the ' places of Southern lpdia, the clock shows the Madras time, and where there are no clocks the, time is ascertained by a •rough calculation applied to the length of a man's sbudow. 1'he corrections doe to the latitude of the place and io the p011ition of the sun on the.,ecliptio are omitted, At night, if the sky should happen to be clear, the_tranait of parti.cular constellations over the meridian is observed, and by the application of a rough table beginning with l(TOIT~T • "When Sravaoa crosses the meridian, Aries has risen by 2f Ghatikas,'' an attempt is made to ascertain the local $ime. In the. first pl~e the table is a rough one, and in the Digitized by Google I1'TBODUCTION. , •second place it applies to the time when the Y ogatara. or ohief star of the group crosses the meridian: The table there• fore becomes uaeless for times lying between the trunait of the Y ogatara of one group and that of the Y ogatara of the next gt·oup. Beaides, most men are ignorant not only of tho Yogota1·a but of the exaot position of the meridian; and tu1·n.ing to'Ul-ds the star which might be to the east or west of the meridian, they fanoy' that it is jnst about to make the transit. If the night happens to be a cloudy one, the time is purely • one of guess work. So many errors must of neces.sity lead ofte·n to an t\rror in tho Lagoa ; and when this oo-. oul's, it upset, the whole thing. Add to this the errors of the calendar relating to the places o·f the planets. Cent. per cent. of the boroacopes of the present day are therefore wrong. n is a ho1•011oopeof this type that is put into the hands of a person who calls himself an astrologer. In a great number or cases, Indian ash"ologers are poor men who have betaken themselves to the study of the scienoe as a means of liveli• hood. The publio would pay them only if they would •prediot some good fortune ; if he correctly predicts an evil, ' he is not only not paid anything, but is set down for a eo1·ceror,whom it would not be safe to approaoh. Thus the astrologer is indnced to conceal any unpleasant. truths which he might _happen to know, and after this the complaint is . that the predictions of such and such astrologers have failed ! For want of encou1·agement the astrologer pays little attention to the study of his subject and of ten has recourse to the help of the black art as already doscdbed. , We shall now say a few words regarding a particular branch of the scienoe known as Prasna or Arudha, Shllstra., horary astrology. 'fhis differs from horoscopy or nativities in thi11 respect, viz;, while the latter rests on the motions of the visible planets round the sun, the forme1• rests mainly on the motions of certain invisible planets which are sup-Digitized by Google llffBODUC'l'IOJf. poHClto move ·round.the. borison. Their·Jawa of motion are exceedingly simple. These planets, wbjoh are 8 iu n~m.ber, move in the following order;· The San, Mars, Jupiter, Mercury, Venus, Saturn, the Moon and Babu, at t.be distan~ • . t ' • of a sign and ·a half,· or 45° from oue another and. ~ke one full day-ol' 2'.bot1ra to go round the horizon-the.Sun being at-the first poiu• of .Aries every day at sunrise, the boa·izqn being t.heit-ecliptic and divided into 12 f'qual ports, eaoh pat'• being known u a sign, and Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and .Aqua1ius beiug 1·especti.ve1y the due ea.~tern; southern, west-. , ern and northem sig~s. ·The remaining a~signs • oconpy the four. corners, two for each corner, one· on eac~1 side of the ooroer point-Aries being situated to tho right of the north.eastern point, the order of the signs remaining the some aa in the heavens above. • The astrologer forms as it were the 1tun,·ronnd whom the planets revolve.· The-diteotion. of (sign ooonpied by), the qoerent is noted down 141well as the position of t.be invisible planets· at ,the, time, W~ cannot ente,· into the det11ils of tho pr~ceas of calcnlation here. Tl~e nstrolog\'lr proceeds to di11cover t.l1e matter qnes• tion and then. makes his µ1·edictions. ,vith the help of his books. In this he • is nssisted by another dep1\l·tment of astrology known as_ Angavidya or Oheshta ShaRtro. which rests ori the motions of humaidimbs, o:tsual 'words and the ~ike. '.A.~gavidyart:!Sb on the theor1 tbn.t a_u .All-pervading ' Intelligence is pointing out to the aatrologer (who is otherwise unable to know it) the miu.ote events or life in a hundred ways, (Vide chapter 51. of Varaha Mihira'e Brihat Samhita). · • • · • • • : Horosoopy differA from horary astrology in. anotbel'., important point: while t.he former enables one to. pr9diot, even the distant events of life, the l"~tel' refers only • to events of the immediate future, and while the one deals. with 3 Digitized by Google IRTRODO'Cl'IOlf• even'-9 of considerable inportanoe, the latter deals mainly with events compa,·o.tively iusignificant, such, foa• inetanoe, ae the sort or menl which one would tiLke in tlte course of a day, the dia-ection of hie seat; and tlie like, In ,uch cases the • a.st,·ologer generally:·w1·ites out his an.1wers in a.bit of paper and folds it up 11sking the questioner to:look into it after the event,'fo,•, the course c,fsuch minor evetf;s of life can be easily altere bdy a previous knowledge, 'l'heae events of lire a.re the immediate effects of nset of oiroumstanoes in which a person 111\Sj1111tplaced himseir, the natural immediate effects of which form m"ttel's for the consideration of horary astrology, 1mddo not come within the scope of horoscopy, • .clfte,·11.p1H·so11bas begun t.o apply his axe to a treo, it may not bo difficult to predict the di1-ection of its Call, but not be£o1·e, H would therefoa·e be wrong to conclude from· these mi110l' pa·edicrions of' borary uatrology that tho minutest eveoh, of one's life are preordained and that man has no couta·ol ove-r them. If; only remriins to say a few ,,.ords about cea·tain bo9ka known as Nadigrandhams. These purport to contain a brief account of the lives of ull mankind. It would app1•ar on a supea-fioia.lcousidemtiou of the su l,ject that such bc,oks· cannot a.t all exist. That they ez:ist iii n fact aa:d the ques• tiou tberefo1·e is how came they to uist-how were tJ)e7 prepared. The planets occupy partionlar places on the ecliptic af; particular points of time, Evel'y moment theh· positions are changing. The question then is in what pniod of time the planets 1·etum to their former positions. 'J'his i11 a queRtion of Arithmetic-a que11tion of the Least Commou Mw~iple of 7 01· 8 numbers. ~'hue numbera are the Digitized by Goos I e JftTBODUcriOII', 1t .iderial periods ,or Mercury, Vena,, Earth, lul'I, JapiLer aod Saturn and of the Moon, ri1,, • Mercury 87·9693 day• Ve,nas •224,•7008 ,, Earth '... 865·2664. ,, Mars 686·9i95 ,. Jupiter -4382·6848 ,, Saturn 10759·2200 ,. Moon 27 ds. 7 hrs, 45 m.11.5 •• Now the L. C. M. of the above numbors is tlae K11lp • or the Hindu Astronomy is which 4,:320000000aiderial yeal'I. After \Yhioh tlte planet.a nll return to the 6ral point of Aries at the J1orizon or Lanka-a ·plnoe on tl,e equ11tor whose longitude is 760 E. from Greenwich. A Kulpa consists or 1000 Ohataryngaa, A Ohaturyuga coullat.a of '320000 siderit,1 years, of which Kaliyoga oonai,t.a o{ 432000aiderial years. D"apara yoga 4,32000X 2 -864000 yeara. • Treta yoga ... 482000X 3 -1296000 ,, Krita ynga .... 4.82000X 4t -1728000 , • . • A Knlpa forms Brahma's day. at the end of which t.1,e .MAh11prnlay11 commences. Again, the number of Rasi Ohakrnms ot-the ZodiaC11l representntioos or the pnsitions or tl1e planets is also Jimited. How ? Suppose thero w11& only one planet, any, the Run, He might occupy any one of the 12 liousea; so might Mars nnd each or the othE'r planets. The Ii'-plnoes of the Sun combined with the 12 plnoes or )fora will give us 121 or 10 different places for the Snn and Mara.These combined wit.h the 12 plllcelf of Jnpitf't• will gi\"e 121 X 12or 121 or 1728places for tlte three plam:t,~ t,he Sun, M•1l'ft a11d Jupiter. Similarly 4t plnnP.ts will give 12' positions and S pla.u~ta willgi,e 12' pua~tiooa, and 10 on, Now laoroscopydeala • Digitized by Google !O INTRODUOTIOXJ . with. the po11ition1 of the five-planets Mercory,. Venu1; Mins, Jupiter and Saturn, us ,,ell as the Son, the. Moon, and Rahu (~Ioou'11 nsceu11ing npdo): ~Of these 8 pl&peta; all, excepti11g the in(erjo~ planets, Mercnry and Vti~a11, will give us 121 posit.ions .. Now the .greatest elong&tion oC Mercury from th~ Bun is about 19°, and th&t of Venus is about47°; sotho.t when the Sun occupies a pa1·tiuula.1·sign, Mercury ~ill occupy either that sign or the sign next after it 0.1'.next. before it ; simi!Ji.rly Veuns will be eithe,· in the house occupied by the Suu or iii oue of the two 11ign1next after it or next before it. In other words, the number •already obtniued will ,have to be increased threefold on account orMercury and fivefold OD 11cconnt of Venus. The, . number then is 12• x 3 x t,, Combine with this the 12 Lagnas. The to~l numbe1· of. Ra.tti Oh"k,·ams the1·efore is 12.8 x8 x 5 X 12=1~'X15=58i477120. So that while the limi~ of time • is 432,0000000 atderial years, the limit of Rasi Chakrams dul'iog thnt pel'iod is 537477120; These·figO:,·es ha.ve been stated simply with the object of dispelling ce,;tain w1·ong notions that the nnmbur of horo11copio·Raai Chakrams ill infinit~ and that the changes go on,for an infinite period of time. On the o~he,• hand,.it would be wrong to suppose that; the scope of a Nadigr1~n•. db1'm: exteudti to the period of a K:•lp,•011 that it treatisof. ao mnny.ch,,krn.ms, The .ohak1·11ms 1,bem11elves oann()t be: ao many in reulity, the. n1tmbe1• given alwve . expreHes the . posi.ible number of po1itio11a in which the plimets Olln be. eoncn11edto l,o placed in . t.he 12 11igus of t.be ?bdiao aZg,.braioally. But tlioy cannot assume all t.hese pe>liitioue, for . this. simple re~son, thut they l111ve motions ot' their own. nnd oo.n only cowu to paa·tic11lr.1·po&itious aul.>jtict. to sup\l motions. Agt\io, of 5:H477120 hornscopio Raai Ohak,·aml!,, • U~11D1, Neptune and other teleaoopio • pl~eta are IIOt 111pp~ w auoiM au7 appreciable inAaence. o,er bwun aaaJrc.· • ,-• • .. , •1 Digitized by Google llffBODUOTION. • • 21: reduced,' aa just pointed out, a .very large number refer to animals and plants, (vide Ob. 3 on Animal and :Vegetable • horoscopy). Again, it d~s uot appear that; the Nadi.frl"lndh~ms trent or any period of t.ime other than the p•·e11e11f; Kaliyuga, n.ud ii; is probable that those btiman chakrams that poiot.ed to births in other yogas have been rejl'oted. Now a murnber ofhorosoopes, though ngreeing iu the broa<l, Zodiacal divisions of the planetary plaot!s, might show grea.t, dift'erenoes where the divisions are more minute; as the Navnmsa,· Tl'imsamsa, Horn., Drekkann, Dvadasamsa and' ' ' ' tl1e like di!isions, and it might be asked whether the N11di-. gr11ndhams recognize these divisions, and if_uot, on ~hat basis these graodtiams a_1·ebnilt_. • • • • • • • ' ; The 360 degrees of the ecliptic are divided into 12. eqnal parts of 30 degrees each, n.nd t'&eh division is known ns a. sign of the Zodiac. Each sign; for p~rposes of Nadi.grandhams is divided into j 50 pnrts known as am~a•, and. the~e amRaS have particular !lames asdgne~ 1~0 them, s~cb •. aa Vaauaha,. Vy,hntivi, Brah'l'i, Kala Kuta, .Al&i~Sanka.ri,. and so forth. A degree of t,he f'Oliptio contains 5 snob pad~; . and eao·h part is divided into two halves· known ns Poorvabhaga_ and Uttar:nbhBgn.,i.e., t.he first half and the second, half, • For. each half the Nadigrn.udham contains a. life~ and this half repl'esents in. space 6 ~iout~R, and in Ljme. a V1ghatik1Lor 24, seconds, So that the m11mbe1·of horos-• copes.· treated ef in Nadigr11ndham11 as regards the am,a, is ~;600., Now the first; volume of Dhrnvanl\di gives I\ b1·ief accouut of the. li,•es of persons for tbe •~any anua• already . refe1Ted to. 'l'he sketch is ·quite independent of the posi-. tion of the pl1\neh and ho ids true with soine slight alte1·ations • from· pliLneta,·y infiuencea. The points treutodof reftsr t~ the ninLel'i"I points ot' one's life.· Now in the cnse of human· horoscopy there is a la,v 0011neoting the· am,a,: wiLb the • ·· positfons: of.the planets. • lJong·~nispeoted _that such a law, Digitized by Google lllDOJ>UCUOII'. of connection most exist. For otherwise i$ woold no$ be possible to describe co1·reotly tbe positions of t.be planet.I several thous11ud yent'S henoe and for suoh long ages. I ex11111inedthe page!& ot' the volume ah·eady rufer1·ed to, and found the author wa·iting in one place 111tfollows :""""'.' " We • shall now proceed to state the method of dis.covering the pluoes of the planets for the several amsaa f9r homao bh·tha." A thl'ill or joy ran th,·oogh . me whioh w111 soon followed by bitt.er dit1appoint.ment. J!'or the ned oadjun leaf which ought to have contained the infua·mation wanted wa\it miuiug I Sume person, evidently seeing the importance of the iofoa-mation, must have carried awny the li=af of the book I examined. Our readera·are requeisted to examine other copies of the lat. volume of the Dht·uva.111,di. The author of a. N11digrandhnm takes np an amnm and jots down the pol!igious or the several sets of p01ti~ioos of the planets, taking into considerntion especially their Zodiacal divisions, and by slightly altering, or adJiog to, the brief sketch above referred to, for the am8&8, finishes his accoon\ of a life. '£he author says that he ireats only of abou, 80 • or 40 important point.it in oach life, Now uude,· 0110 of these accounts a numbel' of persona will full whoso lives will .bow differenoea of a mol'e minute nature which the Nadi.grandham does not take into accouut. The N11digra11d.bamstherefore ore only very brief' sketches of hunmn lives, A really learned astrologer can write out an occount of a mun's life 10 or 20 times the length of the sketch in a Nadig1·andbam. This pe1·h11ps is t-he proper place for afew words 1'8gard.ing a common complaiut on t.be pnrt of persons who have consulted the Nadigrandham~, th1\t tht•11e books are uuder a curao, that they _correctly deilcribe the poa~eveDtll of• Digitized by Google IKT1\0DVOTI01'• pel'BOn's life and err regardi~ the future events. The fauU is not that of tho Grandham; it ce1·tainly would not be poa· aible for the author to a'l<'erlain before-hand at wlmt period of ono'a life the ~k would be consulted, and then to give a co1-rect itrconnt of such life till th11.t period of time, and then (for such an Able astrologer, purposely to err. The fact is that, ae already explained, the position of t.he planets fl8 abewn in the h(lrosco1les do not agre~ with any given in the Nadigrandh~ms. 'l'be possessor of a Nadi-. • grandhan ex:,mines a • number of • horoscopes in which the planetary positions very nearly approach those shewn by the hol'oscopes pros~uted to him, '!'he nenrer the ast1·ologer app1·oaches the correct • horoscope, the moro n11mel'ous will bet the points of llgruement between f;be life suspected os ~he oorreot lire and the actual life of the person. Now, if while the astrologet• reAds out from his book, the person consulting it, meets wit}I any past; events of bis life not tallying with the statements of the bo~k, the pages are set aside and other pages examined. But if no cliscrepancy is noticed, the penon comes hastily to the conclusion that the life picked out is bis and goes home satisfied, with a copy of it. lu suoh oMes, the chances of disappointment are more numerous than thostt of success. The best. plan would be, fot· ,a person who wishes. to con.1ult Lhe N11.digr11.u<lhams, to hawe bis ho1·oscope. p1·epared with the help of lhe oorreot modern tablea and the oorreot ayanamsa.• . As regards the first astrologic~l ~ork taken up for translation, viz., the B1·ihat Jataka of Vl\rahu. Mihira, it ia •'1'1111work oan bedon. at thf. oflloe for an7 pereon who woald let u bow the time ancl place of hi• birth for • fee of .Rs.3. Dul we CU• nol 11J1der&aketo refer lo an7 Nldigr,.nclhamu we ha•• no 111eb work Withu. • Digitized by Google J.HTROD'O'O'l'ION.. ,·' . generalJy considered as one of the best works on the·1,1oiepce• . The author himself says of it ~• f ~llows : . , , . ~1~T11~'ft11'lf•m~1•111wrT1fi , '. •t1~i"\sif"f~-;r111j11-s~11r~~...~1t1~il•u : ;-·" For the benefit or' those of broken atiempts to oroaa ;the ocean ·of hol'oscopy, l consti-uot this little boat oonaist.ing of a variet.y of metree,with a multiplicity of meanings.?> ·Most of the 'atanzas ·are purposely intended-to. convey aevea·al meanings. Four cornmentni·iea hiLve accordingly .apl'Dng up. 'l'he well known one is ~hat of Ilhi.tta Utp11Jl\; ·another is known as Subodhini; both of these are now • ,with me; a thir~ -oo~mentary is known as. Mud1·uksuri, in ,which i, is said that .most of the stanzas a1·e. interpreted arithmetically-the letters ull standing .t'ol' ISO m"uy fig1ues and the figures represeutiug tbe 27 a,,iteri11ms, the 12 signs, the 9 plauets, 11nd so forth.: 'fbe, fou1·th oommeutnry 'is .kQown as Sreepateeyam. . . .... : • • The I autho1· has wl'itten a smaller· work on astrology known as· t.,ghu Jataka. Hf,nce tbe·present work is styled the BrihatJl\tl\ka.-1 Jat.i1k1\Ol' horosoopy is one of the three sections of Jyutis•Sastr"; an<l the author has treated of all the t.hree. b1•anc,he11 'l'he othcl' two nre 88'll)hita... branohea and .Astronomy .. Vau·aba: M ihi1·&'1f wol'k. on the . former, known as·tlio Bl'ih1it, ~amhlta., is now being trarnslated by me, a,ud his usLronomioal work is k11owo aa Punohasindban• tika .. It ,v11s long supposed to have been lost. Fortu• nn.tely two copies of this ra1·e work were recently disco.vered,' and they were purchased by the Bombay Governmisut. M. • 'l'hibant, Phil. ·Dt>. is now prepadng nn edition aud· au Euglish tr11nslatio11of the same, assisted by Pundit Suddba.kni•a, • V u.ruha Milail'a. has also wdtten a woL·k knowQ aa Yogl!,yatra. A manuscript oopy of this work is with Ur, Kerne, now in Ley don, Holland. . , ... : Digitized by Google INTBODtlCTIOK, I have deemed it advisable to explain and ret:iin th'e use of a number of Sanl!crit terms for the convenience of the natives of this country, who must be D,1ore familiar with them than with tl1eir English equivalents where such exist. It m1,y be well to state here some of the subjects treated of in the work now taken up for translation. The book ~on• ta.ins 28 chapters. 'l'he fil'st two cl1apters relate to defini.tions of astrological terms and to elementary priociplee, 1-'he third relates to animal and vegetable horoscopy. The fourth treats of the determinatiom of the nature of issoe.tbeir physical peculiarities, fortunes, &c., from the planetary positions at t,ha time of conception. A cbn.pter is devoted to the dete1·mination of the description of the place of birth and the other incidentscon11eoted with the time of birth from planetary positions with a view to the correct a.soertainment of the J...a.gna, The next ehapter treats of early death.Balllrishta, nn,1 the ne:xh is devoted t9 the determination of the length of life of a native-Jataki. .A chapter is de.voted to the particular avocations of men and to theit< sources of we11lt.h. Then follo,v several important ch11.pters on Raj11 and other Yogiis. The chapter on Pravrijya yoga de.termines under what pla'letary aspects a native will turn out an ascetic. The chapter headed Aniabtadhyaya contains A number of malevolent planetary positions, ea.oh connected with some evil of human life. A chapter is devoted to women, 'l'his i1 followed by a chapt4,t<which describes the particular manner in which a person meets 'Vith his death and the nature of his fature life. In the next chapter the author lays down rules for the determination of the horoscope of a per.aon ignorant of his time of birth, The above is not a complete list, and it would be wrong to j1,Jdge of the inter.esting nature of the contents of each chapter from the brief account given above. The appendix to the translation will contain nu_merona Digitized by Google lllTBODVOTION. tables and diagrams relating to the coosLruction or horos.copes and to the ascertainment of the local time by the sun-dial, by the shadoy, and, at night, by the transit of the stars over the meridian. We will also state rules for the constrnctioa of the plane of meridian by means of fine threads for purposes of observation. The appendix will also contain • few tables. for the calculation of the lengths of the Da.aas and Bhukties. We may conclude this Introduction with . the: words of Zadkiel and" advise those who value truth to spend a few: days in examining the principles laid down in this woa·k and applying them to their own individual cases before they join the herd of the learned and the unlearned in pledging their words to a fiJse asserUon, viz., that_Asti·ology ia an unfounded science.,, N. C. lbt>uiu, 2nd J'IJ/ll1 1885, Digitized by Google .. The following list or Astrological terms de6ned in the fu'lt two chap~ and arranged alphabetical,ly with the stanzas given oppoalte ·to each is publiabed for con .. veoienoe of reference. . • Ch .• Stanza, • Af·oa (t0•h house) ..• ... ... ... I 16 A okera (Greek name for :Makara, Capricorn). I 8 Ambu (4th house) ...I 18 Angles or quadrants, their strength ... I 19 Antyabba (Sign Meenn, Pisces)... . .. . ...I 8· Apoklima (the 8rd, 6th, 9lh and 12 houses frem the aaoendant) I 18· Aspects, planetary, ••• . . . • •• II ]3, Aatabhavana (7th house or setting aign) I 18 Atimitragraha, very friendlf planets ••• ...II 19 Atiaatrugraha, very inimica planets ..• ...II 19 B. Bene6c planets .. ; ... ... ... ...II. 6 . Benetf o signs . . . . .. ... ... 'I 11 Biped signs, their strength. ... ... ... I 19 C. Castes, planetary divisions of ... ... ••• II 7 Centiped signs, their strElllgth ... ...I 19 Ohara rasi, movable aigns ... ... ... I .11 Ohatm'&lll'I\, 4th and 8th houses ...I )6 Chatueb~a raai, quadruped signs ... ... I ]9 Cbeshta a, motional strength of planets ...II 19 Clothes, f.l~tary divisions of... .. , ••• II 12 Colors, p anetary divisions o(... . .. II 4, & ~. Colors, of Zodiacal signs ... I 20 Commonsigns ... . .. ... I 11 . D. Daksbina raais,' Southern signs ... ... I 11 , Depression signs and degrees ... ... . .. 1 13 Devas, planetary diviaiona of ... ... ...II 6 . . . . .. .Digitized by Google ASTROLOGICAL TERlllS. Dhl\fus or elements or the body, planetary divisions of... ... .. . ... nik bn.Jn, quarterly strength of planets Dile, direction of planets . .. . .. Directions of planets ... Diurnnl signs .. . . .. DrekkanA.S. their lorclB... . .. Drishti, planetary sight or aspect •·-Dnschikya, 3rd house . . . .. . D wadasllbhavn., signification of the 12 housea ... Dwadnsamsa, division of a sig11 into 12 partsDwelling . house11, planetary parts of ... . .. Dwipada rasiir, biped signs Dyuna, 7th house E. Eastern signs divisions of Elements, dhatus, of the· body, planetary . .divisions of . Elements, planetary divisions of. Exaltation signs and degrees ... F. Female planets I •• Female signs .. . Fixed signs .. .. . .Flavor, 11la.netary .. ... • ... "Foot, Rigas that rise with their, Forms of the signs Forms of tbe planets. ... Fl'iendly planets. , •• Garments, planetery divisio•s of Greek names for Zodiacal si~ns. ... ... Oona, temper, planetar1 div1Sions of:' .• Ob. Sta.nza. JI II· II II I t II I I I II I I ... I II II I ...II I I II I ... I II II II I ... II. ll 19 o • 5 10 11 & 12 18 19 15& JG 6 1! 19 16 1,1 11 6 18 6 J1 11 • J4, 10 5 8 to 11 15 to 18 12 8 1' Digitized by Google • .lSTROLOOICAJ, 'l'ER:11S• ,.,,JJ1 Ch. Stanza. H .  . Heads, sill'ns lhat Hs·e with their ...  I  10  Head and tllil, sign that  rises with its  I  10  Hermaphrodite plnnets... Hibuk11, 4th house ...  • ... · • ... II ... .... I  ll. JR  Hora  ...  I  9  Horas, their. lords ...  I 1 1 & 12  Hon·ses, theit-lol'dB  I 0  Hridroga .. Greek name for Kumbba, Aquarius.  I  8  I. Immovable signs I 11 Inimical planet& iI 15to 18 J. Jamilm, 7th house I J11.ti, Caste, of the planets ... .:. tr Jitum11, G,·eek name for Mithuna, Gemini ••• I Juka, Greek na,nefor Tola, Libra ... ••• ·I K"la, time, planetary lengths of ... ... JI 14: Ko.labala,periodical strength of planets ...II 19 Kala purnsha, ~lanetary divisions of lI 1 Kala puruaha, odiaoal division of ... ... I 4, Karmastbanam 10th honse ... ... I 18 Kendra, quadrants or angles, their strength I 17 & 19 Kourpya, Greek name for Vriachib, Scorpio. I 8 Kria, Greek name for Mesba, Aries ... ... I 8 gXulira, Kataka, Cancer ... ... ... ... I !Agna, strength or• ... • • ••. Leya,Greek name:(or Simha, Leo ... Digitized by Google ASTIOLOO ICAL HB)(S, · M. Ch. Stanm. Malo-planets ... ... ... ... II 6 :Male signs .• , I 11 :Malefic planets ... .... ••• II o Mttletic signs .. . . I 11 Measurement of the Zodiacal i.igos ... I 1g :Meshooran11,I 0th house I 18 Meta.ls, plauetaa·y diV1Sions of ... ... II · 12 )r{itragra.ha, friendlJ planets .. . . .. II 15 to 18 Mool" trikona, sig1111and iheir lords ... I 14 Motional strength of planets II 19 Movable signs .. , I 11 Movable and immovable signs ... I U N. Naisargikabala, natural, relative strength of planets ... . .. ... ... ...I[ 21 Names, various, for planets II 2&3 Napumsaka graha, hermaphrodite planets •.. II 6 Natural, l'elative, strength of planets ... II 19 Navamsa, d\vision of sign into 9 parts and their lordR .. . ... . ., ... I 6 Neeoha, depression signs ... I JS Neutral planets ... ...11 17& 18 Nocturnal signs ... ... ... I 10 p, Panaphara signs, 2nd, 5th, fth & 11th houaeB. l 18 Pnpagraha, malefio planets ... II 5 Paparaai, malefic signs . ... I Ii Paschima l'&Si, Western signs ... I 11 Pathona., Greek name for Kannya, Virgo I 8 Pedodical strength of the planets II 19 Political divisions of the planets II 1 Poaitional strength of the planets ... II 19 Prak 1·asis, Eastern &igns . . . .. . . .. I 11 P1·iahtoda.ya rasia, signs rising with their feet. 1i 10 Pnruaha graha, male planets ... ...I[ 6 Purll8ha ~is, male signs . •n ... ... I 11 Digitized by Google ASTROLOGICAL TEIUIS, ... Q. Oh. Stanza. Qaadranle, their strength • • ... I 17 & 19••• ·••·Quadruped signR, their s:rength t 19 Quarterly strength of planets ... .... .... II 19 R. Rasia.Si11ns,nRmes of ... ... .... I ' Has is, t.heir lords • •.. ... .... I 6 Riksbasandhi, definei ... ... I 7 Ritas, planetal'y divisio, I of ... JI 12 ltu~, sht1pes, of planets ... ... II 8 to 11 . . •• IRopa, shapes, of aigns... ... ... I 0 s. Sama pha, neutral planets .. . ... •.. II 16,17 Satru graha, inimical plauets .. . . .. Il J5 to 18 Seasons, planetary divisions of ••• . .. II 12 Bhadvarga, 6 modes of the division of the eclipt.io ... •.. . .. ... I .9 • Shapes of the signs ... ... ... I 5.Shapes of the planets ... . .. . .. II 8 to It Sights or aspeots,ef the planets • •• ... ·11 ·13 Signs, names of ... . .. ... I .4, • Bigus, their lords ... ... . .. I 6 Significations, of, the 12 signs of Zodiao ... I 15& 16 Birapriathtodaya rasi, sign that rises with its head and tail . .. . .. • .• ... I 10 Sirodaya rasis, signs tLat rise with theh.heada• ••• ••• ... ... . .. I 10 Southern signs . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 11 Stbanabala, positional strength of planets ... II 19 SthirA rasis, 6:s:ed signs . . . ... .. I 11 Streegraha, female planets!... . . . JI 6 Stree rasis, female signs .. . . . . .. . I Jl , Strsngt,h of Lagoa . . . •• . . .. I JO Subhap:raha, benefio planets . .. II 5 Sukha, -'th house ••. . . . I .18· Butabba, 5th hot1Be ... I 18 Bwakshetra houses and their loras .. . .. . I ti Digitized by Google .ABTROLOOICALTJ:UI. T. Ch. Stalll, Tail11,si~ns Lhn.t rise with their I JO ".l'1tpas,9th house . . . . .. . . . . . . . I J 9 'l'a.vuri, Greek.name for Vrillhabha, Taurus... I 8 Temper, of plant-ta . . . . . . . . . . . . II 7. Toukt!hika, (,reek name fol' Dhanus, SugiLtari. I 8 'f riangular signs ... I 6 Trikona, 5th houa8 . .• I 18 Trikona rasi, tril\ngular signs ... , .. I 6 'l'rimlllllllll&,division of' sign iuto ~O parts ... I 7 'l'l'itl'ikona, 9th house .. . ... . . I 19 u. Ubhay" rasi; ~ov11bie and immovable sign, .. . I 11 Ucch"rasi, signs of exaltation wiLh degrttea .. . I 13 Upachaya or improving aigns I )5 Uttaru. l'~i, No1·thern aigus ••• I 11: v. Vargottama, defined . I 14, Varua, color of planets . . •. I[ ' & 5Varna, color of Zodiacal signs I 20 Vei1i,2nd house from the Sun. I· 20 Vesma, 4'th house ... 1 18 w. Western signs ... ... I 11 Digitized by Google THE BRIHT JTAKA o, ·vA RA H A MI H I R A .• OHAPTER I, De8D1tlona and Elementary -Principle• (Zodiacal.) 1, M"y tbe Sun give us speeoh, who :·byhis ·Jighf; ilJumines the Moon,(a) who is the path of those who have no r~birth, who is the Atma or tho~e who know the .Atma, w~o .is the De:va worshipped in sacrificial rit.es, who is the Lord of the Devas and of the Lights. of the sky., who is the .Author of the origin, growth and annihilation ·ofihe worlds, who is aung in the V eda9 in various way'-', who is possessed of many rays and wh• forms the Lamp of 'tLe t.hree worlds, ' • • • NOTES. (a) In connection with. this we would draw the atten.tion of the ,reader to what the author says on the subject of the Moon receiving light from the Sun in Stanza 2 of Chapter IV of his Brihat· Sa.mbita, which runs as follows; . "Tlie rays· of. the Sun falling on the watery Moon re.move the dar~nesa of the night (on Earth) jua~ in the same ,ray aa light reflected from a mirror (placed in the Sun) re.Dl0\'811 the darkness (from) within a room." Digitized by Google •. llRIHAT J'lTAXA. . [cu. r, And in the Vedas we find the (visible) Moon briefly defined as follows : '' Surya rasmiachandramah," ~e Moon is the 1·ayaof th~ San, 2, Though various well written works on .Astrology(a) the· productions ot' able men-exist for tha enlighten-• ment of intelligent students ( of horosoopy), I begin to construct (this) small boot (consisting) of stanzas (written) in various metres and of seve1·al n1eanings for (the benefit of) pel'sons of broken attempts to cross the vast ocean of horoscopy, NOTES, . . (a). Such works as those of Parasara, Garga, Badara.yana.,Satyacharya and others, . 3. According to some, the word kora is a co~ption of ,the word .4horatri, the first and last letters (syllables) being dropped. The soienoe (of horoacopy) tl'eata of the effects of the good and bad deed1 (karma) of men in their . previous birt~s. 4, The (tweive) signs of the Zodi~c, commencing with the ~t point of Aries and of {the asteriam of) Aswani, and consisting, each, of nine stellar quarters and forming a circle, are respectively the head, face, breast, heart, belly, navel, nbdomen, genital organ, two thighs, two knees, . two ankles and the two feet of Kalapurosba. (The terms) ltasi, Kahetra, Graha, Riksha, BhaDJ, Bh1mwa, are synony.mous terms. Digitized by Google llRIHATlATAIU .• 8 NOTlllS. The following ta~le will be useful for purposes of ready reference:. •  Rrui. Mesha  8ign.. ... Aries  , . Part of body. ... Head .  Vrishabha  •.. Taurus  ... Face·  :Mithuna  ... Gemini  ... Breast  Kataka  ... Canoer  ... Heart  Bimha Kanya Tola  •.. Leo .... Virgo ... Libra  ;,. Belly ... Navel ... Abdomen  Vriachika Dbanus :Makal'a  ... Scorpio ... Sagittari ... Capricorn •  • ... Genital organ , .. Two thighs • ... T"'o knees  Kumbha  ... Aquarius  ... Twoankles  Keena  ... Pisces  •.. Two feet;  The t.wenty-aoven uterisms are :-• )~ Aswini ,.. ... fl Arieti• '1~ • Bharanl .. , 85 Arieti1, and Ka.ca '?~-Krittika ••· ... 'I Tauri, Alcyone 1~ • Bohini ... ... 11 Tauri, Aldebaran ~-Mri~111iraha •.• ... 1 Orioois 11~-Ardra • ... •. . 11 Orioni1 .')~-PunRrvasu .... 8 Gemini Pollux ')EW''~'rPuahya ' ... ~ 0anrri • '.',,1.t'm'"Asbleaha ••• ... • Hydrae • -',K.1 ., Magba ... 11 Leoni,, Regulas 1 ,,.,, P, Pbalgoni ... 6 Leonia U. Phalguni ... (J Leonia J~Buta. ... 6 Oorvi .R~lf:,i Ohitra ... 11 VirglniaBpioa.~p..,Bwat,i ... 11 Booii11,.Arotul'U8. •, . ,.,.>(I,-Viukha ... , Librae ~ w.e. • Anuradba ... . .. & Eloorpionill ...~ J yeahta ... 11 Bcorpioni11,Aritares ,~ ... Mola ... .1 Bcorpionia -m-... ,P. Aahadha ... & Bagitiarii~-U. A11hadh& ••• e Bagittarii • ~ ...," .. Bravana. ... a AquiJae, A.lair Braviabta ... 8 Delphini R_..pl... Btaabhishak • .. , ... 1 Aqoarii M~.-P. Bh11drapRdn.. ... • .. a Pega"i · ....~u. Bhndrapada. ... r P gnai and Andremeda.e !J e-.r,_.. • :ae,ati ., . " t Pi,oiam These aelerismli or lunar m&neione are divided each into four • equal parts known a, Nakehatmpadas, There ' • ' Digitized by Google " aretberef ore 108au ch parts in the ecliptic, and each sign contains nine euch pa1·ts or 2. stellar divisions The firat aateriam, Aswini, commences at tlto first point·of-Arie,, •wbioh is the star Reva.ti, about 20° to the eaat of the Vernal lEquinox-(Vide Introdoction), 19 ,hat the second quarter· of the asterism of Krittika. commenoe1 t.he fl.rat point of 'l'aurua. The third qaarter of the aalerism . of :Mrigaair~ba commences the first. point of Gemini, au~ the fourth quarter of the asterism of Punarvaau commences the first point of Oancer, and ao on. Each of t-he terms Raai, Kshett,t., (}raha, &c., means a sign of the Zodiac, which is a twelfth part of the heavens or 30° of the ecliptic. o. Sign Piaces is of tl1e sbape of(a) two flab ·; sign Aquarius is of the shape of a man with a . (water) pot ; sign Gemini is of the shape of a man and woman, (the former) with a stick and (the latter) with a lyre, both seat.ed in one seat ; sign Sagi~tari is of the shape of a mAn who in his lower parts is a horse ; sign Capricorn ia ~f the shape of a crocodile with the face of a deer ; sign Libra is of the shape of a person wHh,scales (in his hand); and (sign Virgo ia of the shape of) a.':virginia a boat with crops (in one hand) and a light (in the other). The other signa resemble in sbape(b) the ditfe1·ent creatures denot.ted by their names. 'l'be dwelling places of the several signs are places appropriate to the several crea.tu1·es. . .  .  NOTES.  (a)  Sign Pisces is of the sbape of two fish lying side  by side,  the head  of the one  being  near the  tail of the  other. .  .  (b)  That is, Al'ies (Mesha) is of the shape  or a ram;  Taurus (Vrishabha.), of ihe shape of a. bull; Oinoer (Ka.ta-. Digitized by Google GIi. I,] DRUU.T • .JATUA, ka), of the shape or a:crab: Leo (Siml,a), oft.he shape or a• lion; and Soo~pio (Vl'ischika), of the shape of a scorpion. . 'l'his stanza as well as· stanza. 4 are chiefly useful in questions bonneoted wiLh horary astrology-in the disco.very of stolen property.and the like;· 6. ?rfal'I',Venus, Mercury, the Moon, the Sun, Mer.cury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Satura, Saturn and Jnpiter ,l\ra respectively the lords of the Signs, and of the Navamsns and Dwadasamsas; and tbe several signs (of the Zodiac beginning from Aries) commence 1·espeotively wit.h. the Na~am~ of M~ba, Ma;r;~~~~ and Ka~ka. Bix modes of dMeion of the eoliptio (860o) for horoacopio parpoiea known u the Shacbarga are mentioned ( vide ata.m• 9). These are Raei ( llign) in whioh the eoliptlo ia divided into HI equal parts of 300 .each; ( vide ataDM•>• Bora in whiob eaoh aign ia divided into two eq11al parts of 16° eaoh \vide ata.nzu 9 and 11). Drekkan~ in which a sign ia divided into three equal parts of 10° ea.oh (vide atanzu 11 and 12); Nava.ma& in which a sign ia divided into nine eq'l&l parta of 80 20' each; Dw.ada.eamaa, in which a aign la divided inio twelve equal parte of 20 8~ eaoh j . and Trimea.maa, in whioh a aign la divided inw thirt1 eqlllll partc of ,. degree eaoh (vide stanza 7). The Nan.m11111 each sign boing divided into 9 eqn'al parts and there being IS ,auoh aign ., there are in all 11X9 or 108 anoh diyiaion . in the eoliptio. \Ve hn•• already lTide 1ta.n1" f) aeen that; the eoliptio conta.iua 27X' or 108 atellar quarters or Na.It. 1hatrapadaa·1 it f11llow1 therefore that a Navam• ia a Nabbatrapada., that ia one-fourth or a lunar mansion. The .108 Navameaa beginning from the ll.nb point· of Arlee bear the aame namea 01 the twelve 111,rna of the Zodiac oounted OYer and OHi' a.gain : the ll.rat N&Yamaad ){eeha ii Meaha it.elf, that of Vriebabha la MakaraI that of lrlithnna ia Tula·1 and that or Katan ii Kata.ka itaelf. The aame order holda for the , aignl from .Bimha to Vrieohika and for the , from Dhanna .to lleena. In other wordathe tour aeta of Trilrona or tri111gular aigna beglu with the eame Nava!DIM I that ia the Trikona aigna of ..,.. • • ~,: xJ'w,~Dhfua !!egin with the Navamaaof Heahn. 't4 ~ Vriahabha, Jra begin with the Nava.maaof llakara. a..w, • xwlni., itill, Xu a begin with the Na.vam• or 4rlfta; and 't(~ ~ki, V~ka, ll~ begin with I.he Nawanaa of £n .. The Dwnduamaas : The twelYe parts into which eaoh sign ia dirided bear the aame namea u .th<MOof gbo lfgna of the ~odlao. The name of tho .lrat Dwaduam,a of a partloular aign 11 the name of tho 1olgn ltaeU. So that the 11 • Dwadaaam11aa of Meeba are lfe1h&, Vrlahabha, Mithnnc, &o., ending with Keena. 'l'hoee of Vriahabha are Vri1hllbha, Mithnna, ICAto.ka, &o., ending with Kesha, Thoae ol llithu1111are Uithuua, Kata.ka, 6in1ha, &o., ending with Vrilhabha and 10-on. Digitized by Google G :sBIIIJ.T UTA.KA. [cu. 1. . The lord1 of the NavamD1 and Dwada1&1DA1are the Mme aa the Jorda of tha Bui. (algna). These are mentioned in the text in the order of the aipa. It will be found tba~ the Ban and llooa have eaoh a hoaae, while the other planet& have each two houl88, Th1119hou1e1an kuowll u 8wak1hatr&11 Thu. ·•Mal'I ii tile lord ot lleaha and Vrlaohik&. VenUI ill the lonl of Vriahal!ba and Tula. lleroury ia the lord of Hithuna and Kannya, Jupiter ia the lord of :Ileana and Dbanua. Saturn ill the lord of Kumbba and Mabra. , The Moon11the lord orKatab, and the Sun 11 the lorl of Bimba, . There are 1avoral moclea of ocinatraoting • figure of the hea"8111. The one Uled in Southern India l. the one reoommandad by Jaimunl-the author of Aatrologioal Abpori1m1. It i1 given below, and the reader fa refernd to tlte appendix for diajl'l't,ml relating to the 11veral modea of divilion of the eoliptio referred to above. ' ,Vriababha Mithunallaaht., Kara. Keena, Jupiter. llel'Cllry,Venn1. Kumbha, Saturn Xatab, lloon. RABI OH.AKRA. J(akara, Batum. Blmha,Sun. Vrilchib, Kanya,Dhanu1, Jupiter. ITula, Venu1. llara. lleroury. 7. Five, five, eight, seven and five parts (degrees) are. respeotively those of Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, ::Meronry, ~ and Venus, in the Qdd signs. In the even signs their '\,~ order is reversed .. The ends (last Navamsas) of Kataka, •.)• Vrisohika. and ::Meenaa1·e known as Riksba aandbis. I ·) .· ·, • 11'-NOTES . ., Thie stanza defines Trimeameas, and their lords, Aa already obsea·ved 'l'a·imsamsa is division of euch sign ioto thirty equal _parts, each pa1;t being a degree, The odd_, signs are MeJba, MithJha, Simba, T~ii\., Dha~'us and Kam~ bha, The even signs are Vrishabha, Katnka, K11nnya,-~ 'Vrisohika, Makarl\ und Meena. <·~v tnt Y'1 ttI Digitized by Google .BRIIU.T .JA'.l'AU. 7 if ..t/.i In the odd signs the first five degrees are. _the Trim-4f$: 5 aamRB.of Man; the next five are those of Saturn; the next 1,.eight are those of Japiter; the next seven are those of }.,./ ')_. Mercury ; and the Jaat five are th011e of Venus. In the 2:o even signs t.he first five ai-e those of Venus ; the next seven !/2-S ar«t those of Mercury ; the next eight are those c,f Jupiter; .ythe next five are those of Saturn; and the last· five are .3O those of Mara. The Tdmsamsa division is used by the author in his Ohap~r relating to the horoscopy of ~omen. 8. The terms Kriya,' Tavuri, Jitnma, • Kulira, Leya, Pathona, Juka, Kourpi, Toukahika, Akokera, Hridroga and Antyabha (are other names for the signs of the Zodiac). NOTES. All the above names, excepting KoJira and Antyabba are evidantly Greek terms-a circumstance clearly indica• ting that the intercourse between the learned men of India and Hellan was more than superficial. 9. A planet is said to be in its Varga if it be in its Drekana, Hora, Navamsa, Trimsamsa, Dwadasamsa and Kshet1·a. The term Hora means both the. rising sign aud one half of a sign of the Zodiac. • NOTES. These t.erm.shave all'eatly been explained (vide stan2111 6). The term Kslietra means a house or a sign. For the , Namei and Lorda of the Hora· divisions of a sign vide Stanza 11. • 10. The signs Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Ollncer, Sagittl\ri and Oapticorn are known as the night signs ;(a) and, with the exception of Gemini, they rise with their feet(b) •• The Digitized by Google BRIBAT 1.lTAJrA. [cu. I· other signs rise with their ..heads(c) and are powerful by day(d). The two fish rise by both_(head and foot)(e). NOTES. {a) . Therefore the dl\y signs are Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, .Aquaa·ios and Pisces .. · (b) Signs that rise by their feet are known as Prish.todaya Ra1tis and these a1·e Aries, Taarus, Cancer, Sagittari, and Capricorn. . . . . (o) Si~s that rise by tlaeir heads are hown as Siro.d1\ya Rasis, and these are Gemioi, Leo, Vii-go. Libra, Scor.pio and Aqnarius. l l. The signs (from Aries) are (by turns) malefic and benefic, masculine and feminine (a) and movable, fixed and both (movable aod fixed)(b). • The signs•Aries, Tauras, Gemini and Cancer with their triangalar signs denote eaoh respectively the Eiu,t, South, West and North(c) .. The two horas of the odd signs are respectively the Solar, and Lunar horas, and the two of th!! even signs are reRpeetivly the Lnnar and. Solar horas ... The ,lords of the Drekka.nas,(d)tof a part.ieularsign) are respeeti\"ely the lords of that sign, the oth sign and the 9th sign. (d)  Therefore the  Priahtodaya. sigos are powerCul at  nigl1t .  • (e)  for  the shape ofthe sign Pisces vide Stanza 5.  NOTES, . (<i) In other wo1·ds the odd. eigns are a.11 malefic and masculine, and the even signs are all bene6c and feminine. (b) Aries, Caneer, Libra and o~pricorn are mov"ble signs. Taurus, Leo, Scorpio anh Aqua.irus are fixed signs. Gemini, Virgo, SagiUari an~ Pisces are both (movable and fb:ed) and IU'e also known.as common signs. Digitized by Google 0CR, I,] BRiBAT JATAn, (c) • Tho signs Aries, Leo and SagiUari • aro:known aa the Eastern signs, . Taros, Virgo and Capricorn are Soothem signs. ~emini, Libra and. Aquarius are W e&tt-ro 11jgn11. ,Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces are N orthero signs,· (d) For exRmple: 'l'be lords or t.he three Drekkana, of Leo are respectiv~ly the Son (lord of Leoj, Jupiter Oord of Sagittai-i the iit.h boost) • and Ma~ (lord of Arje1 the 9t~ house).\-G'ff'lo~i,~ I\. . I . 12, Aocording to 110'1"e(a)the lords or the two bor1111 ora. t1ign are respectively the lords. of the sign and oft.he 11th sign(b); 'and the lords of the tbree,DreklcHnaa of a aign are respectively the lords of the sign, tho 12th sign and the 11th sign(c)'from it. NOTES. (11) Tbat is, accorcling to GargR. And men of his sohool, Bot tl,e anthol.''11 opinion is that expressed in stanz" 11 in which he is supported by the opinion of Satya• ehary11, Cb) The_ lords of the two hol'l\8 of Sagittari, for jn. atano~, are respectively Jupiter (lord of Sagittari) and Ve.n_as (the lord of Libra die 11th house • . • . (o) Tho lords ·of the three Drekkanas of Sagittari, for instAnoe, A.re respectively• Jupiter \lorcl of &11gittari), Mara (lord of Scorpio the J2Lhbouae) and Venus (lord of Libl'A. t.be iltb house) .. • 13, The Signs Arie11, Tauroe, Capricorn, Virgo, Oancer, Pi~s and Librtl nre respecti\'ely tho U'ooha (exaltdion) sign,, of tho Sun ancl other planets. • 'l'he 10th, 3rd, 28th, 15th, 5th, 2,th, 11nd 20th are the degrees of mniu exaltation of the several planets. The 7th or • Digitized by Goog I e given for oonvenie(lce of rE-ft>rence.  Planet,.  Ucohcior &al- Neecha or ds- Degree of mafa  tatio11Eigns.. prs11ion .Sign,,  .E~altation or  Depre11ion.  San.  Aries.  Lib,·a.  JO  Moon.  Tau111s.  ·Scorpio.  8  MRrs.  Capricorn,  Cancer.  28  Mercury. Virgo.  Piscos.  lo  Jupiter.  Cancer.  Capricorn.  5  Venus.  Pisces.  Virgo.  27  Saturn,  Libra.  Aries.  20  .10 BRIHAT JATAl:J.• opposite signs are the Neecha (depression) signs.; and the degrees of main dtpression .a.1·ethe same as given above. . NOTES. A planet io his exaltation sign is oonaidered as exoee-: dingly powerful and one in his depretrsion sign ~s excee.dingly weak. The San and Moon are also tre1tted as pla.nets. The Hinda .11,trologfcalordor of the planets is tho ila.me as the d11ys of the week. The . following table is U. In the movable and other signs {a),· the first, the eentra! and the laat Navftmsas are known as Va.rgottama positions. Planets in such positions will produce • good . • effects, The signs Leo, Taurus, .Aries. Virgo, Sagit.tari, Libra, and Aquarius are known as the Moola.trikona houses of the planets 1·espectively,(b) • • NOTJllS•• ' (a) The Vargottama places are: The first Nav~eas: of the 4 mo~able signs Aries, Cancer, Libra, aod Capri.corn. eTb 5th Uavamsas or the: four fixed signs, Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and .Aquarias. . The 9th Navamsas of the roar movable and fixed aigDt .Gemini, Virgo, Sagittari awl Pisces. Digitized by Google CH, Je] BBIBAT JA.\'A.U. 11 'l'bese Navamsas will be found to bear tbe same names . . as the signs themselves. For ex:ample : the first Navamsa of Aries is Aries; the Grat.of Cancer is dancer, and so ~~-• • ' The 6ft.hNavamsa of Taurus is Taurus; of Leo is Leo and so fol'th. , The ninth Navamsa of Gemini is Gemini, ·or Virgo is Virgo, and so forth.-' (b) The following lisi contains· the Moola Trikona, .. signs of the planets : Pla.uet,. . Moola.Trikona ,ign,. Sun.· Leo. Moon .. :Taurus,: Mars. Ariea. • :M:ereury. Virgo. Jupiter. . s,.gittari. Venus, Libra. . Saturn. . . Aquaiius. 15. The sigoi6cations of the 12 houses from the rising sign (Moendant) aro respectivel,t (a native'&) body, family, brothers, .relations, sons, enemies, wire, death, deed or yirtue, avocation, gain and losa (a). The 8rd, 6th, 10th' nnd 11th houses from the • ascendant are known as the Upachaya (improving) signs, but not so aco~rding to aome.(l,) NOTES. (a) The: following is a list of aignifi.cations of the ieve• ral houses of the Zodiac from the aaoer,daot, Ascendant or . , . , lat house .... Body, fame, Jim.be, ~nd ,, .... Family,• wealth, eye~, speech truthfnloesa, 8rd ,, • ... Brothers, bravery, meals: Digitized by Google i2 JIRIBAT JAT.lJrA., 4th ,, ... Relutions, education, mother, oowa, dwel• lirag plaoe, oarl'iage, comfol't, 5th ,, , .. ·.sons, iutelligeoce, previous karma. 0th ,, , .. Enemies, kiuamen, disoaaes. 71h ,. .... Wit'~, generosity, respect. 8th ,, . •... Death, duration of life, : 9th ,, i •• Deeda of virtue, father, mediciue. 10th ,. ... Avocaticin, knowledge, clothes. 11th ,, ... Gain, ~rning. . 12th ,; ... Lo!'IB, bad deeds, travels. (b) Gl\rg"-.1111dastrologers of his sch~ol ~r~.of opinion tl1at the 3rd. 6th, 10th and 11th houses cease to be Upa• chaya places if malefic planets 01· planets which at·e un.friendly to the Jorda of these 4 houses should eitber occupy such houses or ospec:t the same. But. tl1e author does uot agree with Garga ond be is supported in his views by Satyacl?,arya and by Yava11~w11.1·11, • 16. The twelve signs of the Zodiao beginping froJli the ascendant a1·e kMwu ttiohnioally aa the sigo11 of (1) ~lpa (power), (2) Sva (wealth), (:J) 'Vikrama (prowess), ( 4) Grab& (dwelling plaoe), (5) Pratibha (intelligence), (6)· Kshata (wound), (7) Maumatha (desire), (8) Randhra, (9) Guru (fat.her or preceptor), (10) Mana (respectability), ( 11) Bhava (acquisition), (12) Vyaya (loss), The 4th and 8th hquaes are known aa Chaturasra sigoa, • The 7th house ie kuown as Dyuna and the 10th house is known as Ajna. NOTES: A number or astrological. terms are defined in tbi• stanza. 17. The ]st, 4th, ith and 10th houses are known .as KIAlltakaor Kendra or Chatoshtaya hoUBea( quadrants ~r Digitized by Google CJJ• I,] BBIB'-T UTAEA, , 18 angles). If these four houses ehould happen to be biped, aquatic, oeutiped and quadr.np~d respectively, they then p0888118 strength • . . . . , ... NOTES. The biped signs are: Gemini, Lib~, Virgo, th~ flrat • half of S~gittari and Aquarius~ l....t· • The aquatic signs are: Cancer, tl1e "-halt of Ollpri oorn/and Piecea. • • The only oentiped sign iii Scorpio. The quadruped signs are Aries, Taturus, Leo, the second half of Sagittari an'7of Capricorn. ~/? "':-.4( . • . I I .18; , The bou.1ea next to the angles are know_naa Pana.pbara housee and those next~ them are known as . .A.pok.lima houses. The 4th house is known as Hibuka, Ambu, 811kha • and Vesm~. The 7th hou~e is kn~wn as Jamitra. The Sth house is known as Trikona. The 10th house is . known ~ :M:~hoorana and Karma. ·' .', . , , .... ·r • NOTES. Panapbara and Apoldima are Greek terms. . The Panapht.ra houses are the 2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th houses, . ' . -.,·, The Apoklima honsee are the 3rd, 6th; 9th and ',12th . . . )houses: 19 .. If the lord or the aacondant or Jupiter or ?rfercur1 ahould either ocoupy it ~r aspect it, the a~cenda.nt (Lago") would become powerful and not by other planets. ;t'be Kendra aigna are naturall1 powerful (a) The biped signs are powerful during the day, the quairuped signs at night, and the. eentiped signs at sunrise and at sunset, The ,Mana (measure~ent) • (b) ot the first si:s: . signs from Aries are 20, 2,, 28, 82,' 361 and 40 1'88peotively; and ·those .. Digitized by Google 14, DBIHAT .U.TAlrA. [cu. u. of the next aix signs are 40, 86, 82, 28, 24, and 20 reapeo· tively. The 3rd house ia known as J)uschikya. The 9th as 'fnpas and Trita·i~ona. NOTES. (a) It thererore follows tb~t Pannphara houses are • less powerful than the Kendras, and Apoklima houses are the weakest bouaeR of 1111. (b) 'l'his is used in stanza a:.,Oh, V. 20. 'l'he twelve signa begioning from Aries are res~ pectively {Aries) red, (Taurus) white, (Gemini)of the color of the parrot, (Cancer), of the color of Pat&li(trumpet flower), (Leo) black white, (Virgo) v11riegiLtedin color,· (Libra) black, (Scorpio} of gold color, (Sagittari) of the color of-the husk of paddy, (Capricorn) white 1;ed, (A~uarios) of tlae color of Mongoose, and (Pisces) of the color of fiab. . 1'he signs are known as Pla.va (depressed) in the direction of their• lords. The 2nd house to that; oooopied ,by the Sun is known as Vesi. • • •• • • • NOTES. (a) For the use of this vide stanza 21, ·ch. V. CHAPTER II. J>efblltiona and Elementary principles oontinu. : ' ed,-;--(l'la.neta.ry). . ' ' ' , 1. To the Kalaj,urusha, the' _Sun is the son1,the Moon is the mind, Mars is strength, Mero11rytis speech, Jupiter is knowledge and health, Venus is desire, and Saturn is so1Tow~ . Of th& planets the Sun and Moon arekings, Mars· is Gene-· ral/M.eronry is the first prince,' Jupiter and Venue aro u• aellors and Satnru is ;servant, • • Digitized by Google CK. 11.J BBJRAT JATAKA. 2. Heli is the Sun ; Seetharasmi is the ~oon ; Hf'mna, Vit, Gnn, Bodhaua ind Indupotra (Son of Moon) are the· names of Morcnry; Ara, V skr11, Kroradrik, Avaneya {son of Earth} are the names of Mare; Kon11, Manda, Suryaputra (son of the E:Jun) and Aaiba • (the \,lack planet) are the names of Satum. • •• • • • • • 8. ; Jeeva, Angira.a11, 8nl'flgnru (the preceptor 0£ the· Devaa), V nohaaampati, I jyaare the DA.mesof Jupiter; Sukra, Bhrigu, Bbrigw;uta, Siti, ttbe white pl,uiet),Aapbojit, are the names of Venus; Tam" (darkness), Ago aDd Aau1-a are tb8 names of Rahu (the Moou's ascending node); Sikhi is the n'ame of Keto (the :Moon'"· deeoending node). Terms synonymous with the above should' also: be acoepted (aa the names of the aevet,l planets). • 4~ The Sun 'is•of a red aod dark-bro"n ~olor; the Moon is white ; Mara is not of a tall fignre, anJ ia both red and white; Me.rcnry is green like . the color of the . beofi grass; Jupiter is yellow Jike molte:n go~d; Venus:~ ~ei~b;~rl very white nor very black, ~nd Sa~o:rn 1s black.. . . . . . i·., .. NOTIS. The ~olor of a pei'flon will be that of the planet mosfl powe1·.f11l.at,th.e time of his birt~. • ' • • • I ' • • • • ' ' o. Tho Sun ·presides over copper color; •the Moon over wl,ite color; Mara over red color; Me1·oury over green 0 olor; Jupiter over yellow color; Y enos over a mixture of various colors; and Suturn over black color, {a) The Sun· ia Ag11i; the Moon 'is ,Varona; Mars is Subbramania;Yeroury is Vishnu; Jupiter'ia-Indra; Ven~s is Indrani {Indra'11 wife) rand Ba turn ia Brahma (b)' .. • The Sun presides over east; Venas, south-east; Mars I south; • Babu sotilh-west; Saturn west ; the Moon norLh• west; Mercury north; Jupiter nortb·e~t-(11) ·: .. . Digitized by Google • The waning Moon, the Sun, Mara, Saturn and Me1·cury when in coujunctic,n with aoy of these are malefio plauets (d,. NOTH. (ti) These are useful io a.scertainiog the color of stolen -~rticles and in determining the color of the flowers to be UHeci in the worship of the plant!ts. (b) From the powerful pla.net at the time of one's birth, it can be aacertained which p11rtiu11lar Deva a.person would worship . . (c) . These are useful in dete~ining the position of t.he entrance of 1he delivery room of a woman and iu dis covering t~e airection of escape of thieves. (d) • Jupiter, Venus aod Mercury when in conju~ction with t:ither of these, are beoefic plauets. 6. Mercury and Satoro are hermaphrodite planets (a); ili'eMqon and Venus a1·e female planets, and the rest (b) are male plaot:ts .. Mara is fire; Meroury is earth;· Jopiter is akas (ether); Venus is water; and &torn is air.(cJ • NOTES. (a) Meronry is femaJe hermaphrodite and Saturn is inale hermaphrodite. (b) That is, the Sun, Mars and Jupiter are inale planets. (c) Also the Bon ia tla·e and the Moon water. 7. Venus and Jupiter are Brahmios; Mara and the. Sun are Kahatriyas ; the Mooni~ a Vysya ; M~i-ouryis a Su.dra ; and Saturn is a Chanda.la.. The Moon, the Sun and Jupiter are of Satwaguna. (good temper) ; Mercury and Venus are of Rajogona (pas•. • aionate temper) : Ma.1·sand Sa.turn areof Tamoguna (dark temper) Digitized by Google OH.•11,] lJIUHAT iA.t.Uti. 17 8. The Sun l1aa:somewba~ yenow eyes; ie 'of the height of the length otthe two ·armsstretched ottt, of bilious nature and with very little hair' on his head. : • • • ·, 't • : . t . • • The Moon. has a thin and a . round . body, ia of ·an exceedingly windy. and : pblegll)atio . nature, is learned and has a soft voice and beautiful. eyes .. · 9. Mara has sharp and cruel eyes and a young body, , is generonst of bilious nature, of ttnsteady· mind, and has a narrow middle, Mercury has an impediment in his speech, is fond of joke, and is of a bilious, windy and phlegmatio nature. 10. Jupiter has a big body, (a) yellow hairs andeyea9 high intellectual powers, and i. phlegmatic nature. • , Venne ieada a oomfortable life, has a beautiful body, :fair eyes, a windy and phlegmatic. nature, and black ourliog hairs. . . , NO'l'ES. • . : -. (a} J'upiter is the biggest of all planets, and, the ancient Hiudus were aware of it centuries ago. 11. Saturn is lazy, has eyes of gold color, a thin and tall body, large teeth, stiff hair, and is of a windy nature, : , ' I ,Saturn is • strong in muscles, the Sun in bones, the Moonin blood, Mercwy in akin, Venus in semen, Jupiter i11. flesh,. and ~ars iii, the marrow of the bones. 12. The Sun proaides over the place of worship; the· Moon over wells; Mars over the fire place ; Meronry over play groiinds; 1Jupiter over the store room·; Venus over :,.. bed room, and Saturn· ovor plaooa whoro:swoopiuga aro g&therecl. • • • • • • The garment of 'the Snn • is of thiok thread; that of the Ho~D. is ~e~ -; ~li~,of ~ !ap11tU1b~~t; !hat ~f Digitized by Google JIBmAT .TATA.Ju.; Mercm1 ia wet; that of Jupiter is somewhat used -that of Veno& is strong ; and that of Saturn is torn. • The So~ presides over copper ; the Moon over ge1Ds; Maraover gold; Mercury over braea; Jupiter over silver ;(a). Venua over pents; and Saturn over iron, When either Saturn is in the ascendant or when his Drekkana is rising, the season denoted is Biair&-January and February. When either .V enua is in ·.the aacendant,or when hie Drekkana is rising, the season denoted is V 111&ntha (Spring) -M•~h and April, .. Similarly in the case of the Son or Mars, the seasoa • denoted ls Greeahma (Summer)-May and June. In the case of the Moon, the season itt Varsha (Winter)-J'uly, and ~ ugust, Ia the case of Mercury stheeason is 8ar1't.September and October. And in the case of Jupiter the season is Hemanta-Noveinl>er and December. NOTES. (a) When Jupiter is in his house, He presides over gold, 18. All the planets aspect the Srd and 10th liousea with a quarter sight, t_he 5th and 9ih houses ·with half a sight, the .£th aud 8th \houses with three-quarters of .a sight, and the 7th house with a full sight; but Saturn. as.pects the 8rd aud 10th houses with a full sight; Jupiter aspects the 6th and 9th houses with a full sight, and Mara upects the 4th and 8th houses wit.h a full sight. . NOT.lilS• Suppose A to be a point in the eoliptic occupied by an aspecting planet; divide the ecliptic into 12 equal pai·ta of 30° each, beginning from A. So that the 12 points of divi.Mion will be those reapeot..ively marked by A:, 30° 160 • 90° . 120°,_150°, 160°, 210°, 240°, 210°, 800°, ~Dd 8~0°,aDd Digitized by Google OH. II•] 19 for purposes of planetary aapeota, these points are respect~ • ti,ely the middle points of the lat, 2nd, 3rd. 4th, &c. to l:& ho11Sea, So that a planet at A aspects with a quarter sight the middle points of the 3rd and 10th houses, i. s,, the points marked 60° and !70° respectiyely ; similary i.t as• pects witb a hair sigM points marked 1!30° and. 240° with three-q11arters of a sight pointa marked 90° and 210°; ·andwith a full sight point marked 180°. The degree of aspects for other plaoea most be determined by proportion or rule of three, from the degree or aspects of the next points before and behind. • As regards the special aspects of Sa-.turn, Jupiter and Mars, a similar courseshould be adopted· But if one planet aspects another planet, then subtract ihe longitude of the former from that of the latter, i, s., take the distance between the two planets in degree and calcu.late the degree of aspect as stated above. • 14. The Sun indicates six months; the .Moon two Gbatikaa or forty-eight minutes; Mars a day; Mercury two months ; Jupiter a month ; Venas a fortnight ; aod Sa· turn a year. The Sun presides over pungent flavor; the Moon over aaU flavor ; !dars over aoerbUy ; Mercury over mixed fla.ror; Jupiter over sweetness; V1nus over sourness; and &turn over bitterness, • 15, According to eome Jupiter is the friend of the Bon; Jupiter a~d Aleroury are the friends of the.Moon; Veuus and Mercury are the friends of Mars. The Moon, , Mars, Jupiter, Venue a.nd Saturn are the Mends of Me1·.onry. The Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus and Sa.turn, are-the friends. or Jupiter. Mara, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn are the friends of Venus. Mercury, Jupiter ancl Venus a.re the fiieuds of Satnrn(a). But according to BatJacharya a. 'planet's fl'ienda are the lords of the 2µd 12th, 6th, 9th, 8th, and 4th houses from his Moo~e.triko~u. Digitized by Google 20 [cu. -n. pign•as ,reU as the lord of the . ei:altAtion aign .of aoch planet, provided they do not conflict with the lords of the • remaining honses,(b), NOTES. (a) The other planets nl'e the enemies. (b) The same may be expressed othel'Wiiie: the lords • of the)1·emaining houses are the/ oes of a planet, provided they do not conflict with tlie lor~s•or the seven houses dee.oribed above. Putting the two together we get the ful• lowing resnlts: •(1). Those lords of the seven ho~ses who may not at the same time be the lords of the remaining houses are the friends of the particular planet. (2) ••Those lords of the latter houses who may not at the same time be the lords of the former houses a1·e the· foes-.. of the particular planet. • (3) And those who may be the • lords of both. are neither the frieQds nor the foes of the p~rtic;ular planet. • Following the above rule, the author himself gives for eaoh planet, his friends, foes, and neutrals in the following two stanzas. (ViJe no~ at the end ofstanza. 17). 16. Saturn and Venne· are the . enemies of the Son, :Mercury is his neut1·al, and the rest • are his friends. The Sun and Mercury are the fri~nds of the Moon and the rest are her neutrals.(a) • , The Sun, the Moon, and Jupiter are the friends of Mars; Mercury is his enemy, and Venus and Saturn. are)1is neutrals. The Snn'and Venus are the friends of Mercury ; the Moon is his enemy, and the rest nro his neutrals .. 17. Mercury nnd Venus are the enemies c,f J,ipiter; Saturn is his neutral, and the ' . l'est are ..hid·friends.. . . .. Digitized by Google CB. D] BllIRAT J'ATAJ[.l. 21 . · Meroary ·and Saturn are the friends of-Venus ; Mara and Jupiter are her 11eutrals, and the rest are her enemies. Venus a.nd Mercury are the friends of Satum; Jupiter is his neutral, an~ the rest are.hisenemiea.(b) Thus have I stated over .again at length the views of ' Satyacbarya·regarding the n11tur11l or permaneut frienship, enmity and beutrallty among planets. . NOTER. (a) The Moon has no enemie,_,. (b) We will now examine bow the author arrived Rt. tbe three results given in the last two stanzas. 'l'ake the OASe of the Sun. Hi11 MoolatrikC1na honse is Leo. (Vjde stanza 14.) The 2nd, 12th, 5th, 9t.b, 8th, and 4th houses "from Leo are respectively Virgo, Cauoer, Sagittari, Arie11, Pisces and Scorpio. The exaltation houses of tbe Sun is Aries. '11he lords of all these houses are reRpectively Mer.eury, the Moon, Jupiter, )Jars, Jupiter, )far a.nd :M:1tre or dropping the repetitions, we get, Mercury, MooriJupiter and Mars. . Of the 7 houses Aries being ropeated, we hAve been dealing with only six houses. -The other eix houses of the Zodiac are Leo,. Libra, Capricorn, Aquarius, T11urus and Gemini. Their lords are respectively the Sun, Venus, Saturn, Saturn. Venus and ,Mercury, or dropping the repe.titions, and also the Sun; we get Venr,s, S"turn and Mer.cury. We will compare these with the lords of the former •et of honaes, villl, Me.rcnry, Moon, Jupiter, and Mn.rs. We find that Mercury is the only planet ocouring in both tho lists .. It is tberefore the Son's neutral. Venne and Sa.turn are bi@ enemies, and the Moon, Mars aud Jupiter are his friends. And so with the other planets. 18. Planets that OCCtl,pyt,he 2nd, 12th, 11th, 3rd, 10th and 4th houses from· a particular planet are the friends· or that' planet nnd the rest are his enemiesfor tho ti~e., Ao-.cording to some, the planets that occupy the e-s.altatiou Digitized by Google 22 [oe. 11. sign of a particular planet are also the friends of that pla• net. Oombining together the three natural relations (vide stanzas 16 and 17) with the two relationsjot' thetimBnow given, we mu.y determine the five following relations exist.ing J>etween • planets: Atimitra {great friend), Mitra (friend}, Sama (neutral), &tru (euemy} aud Atisatra, (great enemy.) • • NOTBS. Stanzaa 16 and 17relate to the three relations of p,r.matwint friendship, neutt-ality aud enJDity. Stanza 18 re.lates to the two relations of temporary friendship and eu~ mity. Combining the two together_ we get the following results. Under Stanzas Uuder Stanza • Resalb. 16 &17 18. Mitra. + Mit1·a. -Atimitra. Satru. + Satru. Atisatru.~ &ma, + Mitra. -Mitra. Sama. + Satl'u. -Satr11. Mitra, + Satru. -Sama. 19. A planet has ,thana.bala (local or positional strength) when in his exaltation sign,(a) friendly sign,(b) Breltkaoa,10) in his Navamsa,(cl) or in his Kshetra, honse.(e) 11 -r. •,K~;t-(.( ' /V< • . n .Mercury and Jupiter are power(ul when in theEast(/) or -.ising sign. 'J.'he Sun and Mars are powerful when on the south or tenth sign. Saturn itt powel'ful when in the West or setting sigo, aod the Moon aud Venw a1·e powel'ful whenin the Nol'th or the 4th sign (Pata.la). NOTES, (a) vide I. (13). (b) ,, II. 16 to 18, (o) ,, I. 11 and 12, (d) ,, 1. 6. · I, 6, '<•> " Digitized by Google CB, ll,] 23 , </) that ia : they then po88888 Dik:bala;-Acoordiog to eome Ol)mmentators, Mercury and J11piter are powerf al when in the Eastern triaogolftr signs of Aries, Leo and Sagittari. The Sun and Mars arepowellful when in the Southern triangular signs of Taurus, Virgo and OapriOQtn, Saturn is powerfnl when in the W eatern triangular signs. of Germ.int, Libra and AquariusJ and the Moon and Venaa are powerful when in the Northern triangular signs of Can• oer, Scorpio and Pisoea. 20, The Bun and the . Moon possess Olaeslalabala (motional strength) when in any of the aix signs from Makara. The other planets poaaeaa i• when in their retro,. grade motion or when in conjttnction with the Moon (Bamagama) or when in their greateat brilliancy or when they happen to be the northern planet.a in planetary oonjunchion (Yudha). • il, The Moon,Mara and Sa,um poaaess Kalabalci (temporal strength) at night; Mercury pouesses it both day and night; and the other planeta(ci) poeaesa i• by day, The male&c.planeta possess it during the waning moon (Krishna pabha) and the bene&o planets during the wax• ing moon {Snkla pakaha). Also eaoh plan~t baa it in his 7ear, month, day an<i hour. Sa.turn, liars, Mercury, Jupiter, Tenua the Moon and the Bun are each naturally stronger than the immediately preceding plane• in the order atated.(b) NoTJi:S. (a) That is, tbs San, Jupiter, ~ Y.c.v --, (b} Buch strength is known as Nauargika,1xrJa. Before applying the astrological truths contained in the subsequent pages, the reader must consider the strength or ~eakneu of eac~ ~ouse,. orits ~rd, ~d ot tbe plane\s Digitized by Google 24 BBIBA.T J.A.TA.ll• CH. lt. occupying or aapecting such house. For these and various other purposes it' will not do to have a mere Raai Oha.kra or N~vawsa Cha.kra to repr8lleut roughly tho planetary poai• tions. • 'l1he aotu.J, longitudes (spho.ta) of tho planets and of Lagoa from Revati aboo.ld be known. J. '. Digitized by Google f1U, 8.]-· OHAJ?TER III.· OH ANtKAL AND·V1a•TABLB HOBOSCOPY, • 1. If, aUhe Lime of birth :ca); the ma.1etrrooets (b) .he powerful (c), the benefio planets (d) weak, and one oftbe hermaphrodite planets (e) .·eit.her be in one or the Kendra.a ' (angles) (n or a.apeot the L~na. (ascendant) ; the creature •born will be that indicated by the particular Dtoadaaamaa(D) :whioh the Moon might then occup7 (h)~ · • • • ' . I Noles.· • (a) Or at the Lime of querr, adds the Commentator. •. • (b) Fol' the 1nnsouline planeta,-vide n. 6..(c) .•For the strength of the planets, vide II. 19,20& 21. •( d) For the benefio planets, vide II.· 5, • • . • (e) • For the hermaphrodite. planets, vide II. 6, • (/) · For the Kendras or angles, viqe I, 17, • , (g) For Dwadaaam,a, vide L 6, . ·' · (h) For inst11noe, s~ppo11& at the time of birth the :Moon occupies the 20° of Leo. • • As a Dwada.~amsa..coptains : 2l degrees, the 21°of ~o is the ninth Dwadasam~a,~q;,~q. 'As the names of the Dwadasnmsas or Lao begin• frcim Leo, . the ninth Dwada<Jamsa.is that of Pisces. The creature born will therefore be a. fish. • B~ides, tbe·~umber of the offspring· will be tbat'repre-.•sented bythe number of Dwa.dl\S&msi.apa.seed over bj, ibe : Moon. • Of ,these • the number or odd Dwadasamaa will 'repreient tbe male issae,and the number or even Dwad11• ' eamsas will tepJ'eaent ~he' female issues; the number that •will perish ini'mediately aft.er birth: ·will' be. that of the num.: ber of the ·D.vadasamsas"tliat; might be occupied· by' tho r m11lefioplanets ;or that might otherwise become weak. : : •0 N.B.-The reador will in future kindly 1·efer, to the table of reference published after the Introduction for the .. me.a.ning of an" te1·m.• · • , • ..4, . . J \) Digitized by Google ' BBDIU l.lTAEA, 2. Ir the malefic· plane'8 occupy their Navamaas and be powo1·fol, and if (at the same time) the Lagna (rising sign) ho other than humnn(a); the bh·th will be that of a .lowe1·animal asbefore(b), Notes. (a). The rising sl1ouldbe other than Gemini, Virgo, • Libra, the·seoond half ofSngitta1i and .A.quurios. (b) That is, the creature will be that represented by the Dwadasamsawhichthe Moo11might then.occupy. 3. In the case or quodropeds Aries is the head; T1111111s the face and neck; .Gemini, the forelegs and shoulders; Oanoer, the baok; Leo, the bl'east ; Virgo, the sides; Libr11, the belJy; Scorpio, the anus ; SagiUari, the hind Jega; Oap1·ioorn,the penis or testicle ; Aqnai'ine, the buttocks and Pisces, tlle tail. Notes. In the case of birds the wings stand for the forelegs. This stanza will also enable os to ascertain the color or ,vounds of particular parts or tho creature'" body. 4. If there be any planet in the rising sign, the c~lor of the creature will be that of·· the planet itself; if not the color will be that of the planet aspecting the ris'ing sign; and if no planets aspect the rising sign tbe color will be thi)t of the rising NllVa.msa. TLe number and variety of colors will. be that of the planets • ocoupying or aspecting . the rising sigo(a). The numbe1· of stripes on the back of the creature will be that of the planets oocopying the seventh house. Notes. (a) The-color bf the powerful planet will predominato· Digitized by Google CU, 3.] DBfUA.'IOATU:.L 25 5, lfeitben PakshidrekkRnB(ti) ornCharBnn.vnmsn(b) or a NavamSA of Mercury(c) should rise and bo occnpi• ed by powerful planet.II, t.bo creature born would be a Jnnd bird if the rising Drekkn.nB or Navamsa, be either occupied or aApecled by Saturn ; and a water bird if it be occupied ot aspected by the Moon. Nt 03 (a) These ore the second DrekkBna or dt>grees from ]l to 20 of Gt-mini,' the fi~t. Drekkna or degrees from l to 10 of Leo, the second Drekkaoaof Libra and the first Drek• kana of AquBrius. (b) Ohnra or mo,·ablo Navamsns go by" the samo names as the Charo. or movable sigm•. (c.) The Navamsas of Mercury are those of Gemini and Virgo. 6. tr the rmng sign, the Moon, ,T11piter nnd lbo Sun should ho weak, they indicate tho birth or a tree ; such tree will be either l\ land tree or a water tree Record• ing as the rising Nnvamsa is one of land or water (a). Tho number or trees will be I.ho nnmber of signs by which the lord of the nscendant Navamsa has receded from the rising sign(b), Notes. (a) The wates Navnrusas are tbo"o of Cancer, tho second half of the Nnvam~a or Mn.kam and the Nn,·amsa of Pisces. The other N1,vnmsns are those of land. (b) For instance : suppose lhe 10° of Leo to rise, tho rising Navamsa is thnt of Gemini ; it is a L,nd Navatnsa. 'rho troo will therefore bo one growiug 011 dl'y lBud. 'l'l,o lord of Gemini is Mercury. Suppose llercul'y to occupy Digitized by Google BBIBAT 1AT.l JU. [cu. 4.Sugitta.rl at the timo. From Leo to 81~gittnri is 6 signs. 'l'ho numbel' of trees will thoreforo ho 5. Again, if the lord of the ascendant Nava.msa should be either in the exnltation sign or retl'ograde in his motion, the number alrt·a.dy obtained should bo troblod; but ir h6 should be in his Vnrgottama.bhaga. or in his owu Nnvamga, or Sign or Dl'okkann; such number should bo doubled. For instance : in tho instnnco cited above, if Mel'cury shonlll either be retrog1·ade in motion and occupy his exaltation sign, namely, Virgo, the number, viz., two f1·om Leo should be t1·ebfod. This will give us six. But if Me1·cury should occupy the last Na, amsa. of Libra, (one of his Nava.mans) the number is SX 2=f;, Ifhe should occupy Gemini tl1e mun..bet· is 11 x 2=22 ; and if_ ho shonlJ occupy, for instance, tho 1econtl D1•okkana of sigh Taurus, tho numbor is 2 x l O;;:: 20. 7, If the lo1·d of tho ascendant Navnmsa. be tl1e Sun(a), the tree will be one stl'ong withi.n ; it' Satul'n, the t1·~6 will be an ugly one; if the Moon, it will ho "milky tree ; if Mars, a thorny tree; if Jupiter, I\ fruit ti·ee; if Mermll'y, a fruitless tree ; if Venus, a fluwer tree ; if the Moon again, nu oily tree ; a.n<l if Mar.-i,a tree of sour taste. Notes. (a) The conditions given in the las~ stanza remaining the s11.mo. 8. If the lord of. Lbe ascendant Navamsa be a. bene.fic~planet occupying a malefic sign(ci), tho t1·ee will be " superiot· one growing on a bad ground ; if otherwise, tho 1·ove1·se will be the case(b) ; tho m~mbe1• of t1·eee is also the numbe1· of Nuvnmsas by which lhe lord of the ascen.dant Nnvamsa has receded from his Navamsa, Digitized by Google JIBJBAT 8A.JIB11'.t.• 27 NotN. • (ci). The other condition, given in atnnza 6 remaining the same.· .. (b), That is, if the lord or the aacendnnt • NavAmisa be malefic planet occupying a hene6o bouae, the tree will be. an infel'ior one growing on a good ground. -CHAPTER IV• ON N1susn KALA oRTu. T1111OI' C9Ncsmo:w. 1. _The meMes ~hat ~ppear monthly, because of Mars ··and the Moon (a) (bl'ing about concoptio11) when the Moon ·;, in one of the Annopachaya aigns(l,). If the Moon be ot.her.·-wise(e) and be aspected by a beoe6c male planet(d), there willbe sexual union between a woman and her buaband. Notes, ' • (a) • Menses appear iri woml'n whenevet• the Yoon is 1 aapect.ed by Mins, that is espt>cially when the Moon oocu• pies the 4th, 7th or the 8th house from Mars. In connec• tion with this subject the author of &ravali says : ''The Moon is water; Mara is &re; a mixture of water •anc!llre is bilo; when the bile mixes "ilh the blood, men.strual discharge oocors." • (b) Ir, when aapected by Mars, the Moon happens ' to occupy one of the Anupachaya signs in the horoscope or nativity of the woman, at the time of the appearance of the mensee, conception will follow. The Upachaya _signs . ar" the 8rd, 61h, 10th and the 1 Uh houses from the aacen• . dao, ; and the other signit aro known as Anupacbaya aigna. (o), That fa from tl1e time the woml\n bathes on tho • 4th day, when the· Moon reaches one of the Upaohaya ·houses in the horoacope or nativity of the husband. • Digitized by Google BIIHAT JATA1CA, (,l)'. irt1ere will be sexual union . between • the hnsband and -1'·ifoiCthe Moon. is ,ispoct~d by Jupiter wbeQ power.ful. The Commentator adds as fullows : "If the Moon is aspeoted by the Sun, the woman will . ha.ve ee:xuul u11lon with an officer of the king.; if nspcct~ by Mnrs, then with " voluptuary ; if n.'\pected by Mercury, then with a person of fickle mind; if upected by Venus, tben with a beautiful person; if nspected by Saturn, then· with a servant; and if aspected by several malefic plant:ts, the woman will become a harlot," 2. If at the time of sexual union,, the setting sign be either occupied or aspccted. by ma Mic planets, such union will be_ attended with anger, and if by benefio pl1mets, it will be attended with Jffay and JaugMer. Notes. The Comment"'tor &Qds that if the setting sign be occupied or nspected by both malefic and benefio . planets, • the union will be attended with both joy and displeasure. • 3. If, at the time of se:xaal union, the Sun, the Moon, Venus and Mnrs be in thoit-. Navamsu(a), or if Jupiter occnpy the rising sign or the 5th or 9th sign from 'it, such uuion will produce a obiJJ. To persons devoid or verility; the above Yoga (planetary positions) will be as useleas as the rnys of the Moon to the blind. N1,te9. The Commentator adds that there would also be oonoeption when these {our planets are not in their Navom.. SM, if the Sun and VeQqs should occupy the Upacbaya signs in the horoscope of the mnn anti at tho same timo bo in 'their Navamsas, . or if Mura and the Moon ahoul4. . Digitized by Google 20 occupy the Upach"ya sigDI in tl1e horoscope of tho .woman and at the same time be in • t.heir Navamsull •. • • 4,, If at the time of conception, either Mars or Saturn should occupy the 88venth house f1·om Lhe Sun or Moon tho man and his wife would respectioely fall ill (a) ; but if one pf the two planets, Mura and Jupiter, • should occupy. the tw"lfth and the other the second house from the Sun nnd Moon, 01· if one of the planets _should be in coujuoction with the Suu or Moon aod· the other should . aspect eitl,er -the Sun or the Yo~n, the man and bis wife wm respectiroly meet with death (b), Notes. : (a) In.UaeMonth of Mars or Saturn a~ the case may .be(vide Stanz,, 16), • • • (b). In the month of either Satorn 01· Mars whoever is.. powerful ... ' ·' : ' The Comment·,tor adds that tl1e two effects deso1•il,~ • in the Sta11H will occur before ·and not after the birth of ~be child. 6. In the case of conception (a) by dn.y, the Sun and Venus represent respectively th~· faLher and the· mother·; and ·by night, Saturn nncl the Moon 1·epresent ~espective,ly the fathe1· and the mother.. In the \former case Saturn atad the Moon represent respectively the paterual ancle and the •inatetnal aunt ; and in the latter case the Sun and Venus represent 1·eapeotively the paternal uncle and the maternal aunt. • If the plantits 1·epreaenting the father and the paternal uuole aboold occupy the odd 1:1igns, ot· if the pl11nets represent.fog the mother and the m"leroa.1 aunt should \)CCU•' py the even aigns at the time, theu the father aud paternal uno le or the mo\her and lho maternal aunt would be happy Digitized by Google Notes. (a) Or birth acoordiog to tbe Commentator. 6. If at the time of ·conoeption malefic· planets ooeapy tl1e twelfth h"use (a), and if then the rising sign be not; aspected by beoefic planets, or if Saturn occupy the rising &ign aud be aapected by the waning Moon and M.ll?'I (in either case) the pregnant woman will die (b)' N"otos. . (a) The aecond house aooording to certain Oommen, bi.tors. (b). Before delivery time according to O"mmentator. 'i. If (at tl1e time) either the rising sign or the M,>on .or both be between malo6.c planets (a) and at the same tima not aspecl ed by the bGnefio planets, the pregua!lt woman .will die (b). .Notes. (a) AJJ the malefic planets in the present case can ,only l>e th1·ee, vi?.., the Sun, Mara.and Batul'll, both the ri,dng sign and the Moon can be . between them at lih·o 11Lmo _time either when they are together or occupy two altfrna~ honsas. 'l'he Commentator adds that malefic planets migb.t occupy either the I 2th and the 2nd houses from .the aeceu.• dant or the Moon or both, or they might ocoopy tha Navam• •sas on either side, (b) Before delivery and in the month of the power.ful · malefic planet. 8. If (at the lit~1e) malefic planets occupy the fourth ·house ~nd Mars tho eighth he>use from the ascendani or th Digitized by Google OR. 4] 8.l Moon, or agnln if Mara occupy· the foorih honBO and tho Sun the twolflh house from the asoendant, the pregnant woman will die. 9. If (at the time) Mars occupy tho Lagna nnd the Son occupy the seventh ho11se, the pregnant woman will snlfer death from weapons. If the lord of any month (a) lio nfilioted, the pregnancy will miscarry in that month. Notes· {a) For the lords of the several inonths or pregnancy vicle Stanza 16. JO. If tl,e benefic plnnet.s(a) be with t1,e Moon or in the ascendant (b), or if they occupy the second, fourth, fifth, seventh, ninth and •he tenth houses from the Mooq or. tho ascendant, there will be safe delivery, provided· malefio pll\nets occupy the third or eleventh houso from the Moon or the asoendant, ancl t.he Moon or the ascendant, is at the aame time aspecled by tho Son. (1!) Notos. (n.) Th<'se "re Mercury, Jupiter and Venus. (b) Or botl1 at the aame timo. (c) Acoording • to somo . ot.laer • reading, by Jupiter. But this is opposed to S11rava1i. . 11. Jf (11.) tlie ri11ing sign, tho Sun, Japif,<>r nnd tlte Moon be powerful nnd occupy tho odd (mnle) signs nnd the odd Nnvamsas, the: issue will be a ma.lo child (b); if. they oco11pythe even (female) signs and the oven Navamsas, •the issue will be a fcmnlo child (c); if agnin, the Sun and Jopitor(d) occupy Lhe • od.I signs, tho issue wiUbo. a male child ; and if tho Moon, Venus and Mn.rs(e) .occupy ti,e evon signs, the issue will be a female child .• Als.o; if the Sun an~ i Digitized by Google DBIHAT JATAEA, [oe:."• Jupiter occupy the two male double bodied Navamaaa'/) and be aapeefied by Mel,'cury,' the iuue • will be male twins; aud if V en11B and Mars occupy the two female double bodied Navamsas(g) and be aapected by Mercury, tho isauo will be female twil>.a(h). Nutes. {a) At the time or conception or of birth or of qnery about the one or the other acco1·diag to Commeuta.tor. (b & o) If aome of the planets be in the male and some in the female signs or Na.Yamaaa.,then the aex of the isaue will be that which predominates. (d J e) The planets should be powerful also. (/) These are the Navamsaa of Gemini and Sagittai·i. (g} Tboae are the Navamsas or Virgo and Pisces, (h) The issue will be male twins as well as female twins, if all the fow· double bodied Navamsas be ao occupied. 12. lf (at the time)(a) Satura occupy any of the odd signs from the rising sign(b ), the issue will be a n1ale child. The sex of the issue in • all • the above cases shall be determined by the position of the most powerful planet. Notes. · • • (a) Of conception or query according to Commentator. {b) This Yoga applies only in the absence of the Yoga mentioned already, N. B.-Yoga is a particular position of one or mor_e planets either 1·elatively to one another or absolutely in th8 ecliptic or both. 13. (If at the time of conceptio11),the Moon and the 8110, occupying respectively nny of the even and odd signs, ABpecte~h ~~her, ~r (2), ~f~t~r~ ~nd Ke!cury (occupying Digitized by Google D:mIA.T 1ATJ.K'A. 83 respectively any of the even an,1 odd signs) aspect each other, or (3) if Mara (in an odd sign) aeped (or be aspected by) the Son in an even sign, or ( 4) if Lhe Moon and Lagna in odd signs be aspected by Mars (in an even sign), or (5) ir Man aspect the Moon and Mercury oooopying respec.tively even aod odd signs, or (6) if Venne, Lngna and the Koon occupy (mate signs and) male Navamaas.,the issue will be a hermaphrodite. Notes. These N npnmsaka Yogas -take efrect only in ih, absence of male and female Yogas, 14,, tr, whenthe Moon and Venus are in even sigoe, Mercury, Mara,Jupiter and Lagna be in odd signs, or if a male pl"oet aspect Lngna and the Moon in the even signs, or if Mercury, Mars,Jupiter and Lagoabe powerfnl and occupy even signs, the isaue wi1lbe II male and I\ fem ale child. Again, if Lagna and all the planets occupy the Ubhaya (common) NaV1\msas and be aspected by Mercury in hia Navams11,the issne will be three children : of these, two will be male children if the NaVl\maa occupied by Mer.cury be that or·Gemini, and two will be femaie children if S11chNavamaa be that of Virgo. Again, ir, when Mercury occupies the Na.vamsa of Gemini, the other planets a.nd Lagna occupy the Navamsll8 of Gemini and Sagittari, all the U,reo will bo male ohilclron; and if, wl1en Mercury occu.pies the Navamsa of Virgo, the other planet.a and Lngna occupy the Navamsas of Virgo and Pisces, all the three will be female ohildron. 15. If the last Navamsa ofsign Sagittari begin to rise, iCnil the planets occupy tho Navamsa of Sagittari and be powerful, and if the ri11ing sign be aspeotec.lby powerful Meroal'y .and Saturn, the issno will be more than \hroe ohilclren(a) Digitized by Google DRIUAT JATAJC&. (on. 4. l.,.otea. (a) That is 5or 7 or 10 according to Commentator. 10. InJho first month of pregnancy the embryo js formed; in the second, it becomes tlei.h ; io the third, the limbs aro formed ; in the fourth, tho bones are formed ; in the fifth, the skin is formed; in the sixt.b, tho bah· begins to grow ; in tho seventh, iutolligeoce fa infused into tho child(a). The lorils of tho several montl1s from tho fir1:1tto the seventh a,·e Venns, lfa,·e, Jupiter, tho Sun, the Moon, &turn and Mercury respectively, Notes, (a) Io tho eigh~h month, tho child Legins to eat tl1rough tho navel· cord. In the niuth mouth, the chiJJ is filled with cares, and iu the tooth mouth the child is born• The lord of the 8th month is tho lord of tho rising sign at. tho time of conception. The lord of tho 9th mouth i1:1 Lhu :Moon, and tho lord of tho 10th month is tho Suu. Aooord.ing to Y uvo.neswara, tho lord of Lho first tnonlh is Mura and tho.t of the se'oond mouth fa Vouus. There will be miscarriage of pregnancy in that montb whose lord happens to be nfflictod at tho time ot' conooptiou ; but if any of tho plu.nots be· of dim appcn.1·nuco, the fetus will simply suffc1· iu tho month of tho pul'tio1il1Lrj>lnncts. If tho Sun be powerful the child would resowble its father, and if the Moon bo po,vedul, the child would rosomLlo its mother. Tho health nnd disposition of tl10 child follow those of its po.rents at the time of couoeptiou. 17. If Morcury occupy the fifth or ninth house(a) from tho rming sign, aud if at the samo timo the other plunots be Digitized by Google 8,.·•nnIBAT JAT-'KA. poworlol!H,the fnco, tho legs, and the l11111dsof the child will ho doubled .. If the Moon occupy aign'l'am·us anJ if maleftu planots ot'oopy the Riksha Sandhies(b), the .issue will be a mute child ; but if t}ie Moon be aspeoted by a beuefic plan«s~, t,lu,rts will bo speech after a long tiwe(c). Notes. (a) According to some OommPntntore the word 'l'ri.kona in tho text i11intorpreteJ ns lfoolo. trikona, tbnt _is sign Virgo hore. But this is opposed to the opiuiun of Gargo. (b) 1'hnt Is, the last Navams~s of the signs Ouncer, Scorpio and Pisces. (c) Dot if mnlufio pfauots flSp<'ct tho Moon, tho cliild will never spenk ; if both malefic nod bono6c planets aspect the Moon, tho eflect.s will follow the powerful planets, J8. If Saturn and Mara occupy either tho signs or lhe Navomsas(a) of Mercury, tho issue \Viii be a cliild born. with tooth. If Ounoer be tho rising sign nnd if tho Moon occupy it anu bo upeotod by Satum and Mara, the child will bo humpbacked ; . if Pisces be tho rising sign and i£ it be aspocted 1,y Saturn, tho Moon and Mo.1·s,the cl,ilJ will bolo.me. If a mnlofio plo.nctJ,) and the Moon ho in any of tho IM• Nnvamsas of Cancer, Scorpio nnd Pi&'OOS, tho cl1ild will ho born deaf. In n11tho nbove Yogns tho eff~ota described wHl ooo~r only if the sove1-al planets nre not aspectod by Jupiter(c). Notes. (a) Or bolla tt,o aigns and Navamsns according to some Oommentaton1. (b) Ono of the thrco p1a.nots, tho Sun, Mars B!ld Sa.turn. Digitized by Google ... 36 DRJR!T 1.\T!Kl• . {c) So that if the planets be aspected by Jupiter, the cm,ctswill not occur. 19. If the 11\St Navamsa of Makara bogin to rise and if it be nspected by Saturn, tbe Moon and the Su·n, the issue will be a dwa,·f. If Mars occupy the rising Drek.kana of the fifth house or of the ninth hoase{a), the i1&ue wiUbe 'either without a head or without .a1·ms or without Jogs respeotiYely, if Afor.:t bo aspected by the Sun, the Moon and Saturn. • Ne.tee. (a) Some Oommentators interpret this part of the text as follows ; if Mars occupy the 1st or t.he 2nd or the 8rd DrQkknna of a rising sign, &o. But this is opposed to the opinion of Garga. 20. If Leo be the rising sign 11.ndi£ it be occupied by the S11n and Moon and aspected by Mars and Saturn, the issue will be a blind child; (a) if in tho above case benefic planets a~pect the rising sign, the child will be born with a mote in its eyes. If the :Moon or the Sun occupy the twelft.h J1ouse f1·om the risingsign(b), the child will ho born blind, rospPctively, of the lt:ft or th8 1·ight eye(c). Tho several Yogns mentioned above(dJ will not wlaolly come to pass if tho plu.nets of each Yoga bo aspect.ed by· benofic plunels, Notes. (a) According to Commentator if the Sun alone occu.py sign Leo; and if it be Mpeoted by Mars and Sa.turn., the child will be blind of the right eye; and if tho Moon alone shoultl occupy sign Loo, and if it be aspected by Mars and Saturn, the child will be Llin1l of tho left oyo. (b) At the time of N~heka. (concoiition) or of birth. Digitized by Google en. 5.] DRIIIAT IATAKA, 87 • • (c) Provided the Sun or tlie Moon·is aspected by liars and Satw·n according to bubodhini Oommentator. (d) That is beginning from Stanza 17. 21. Find ont the number of the particular Dwnda-.snmsa oooupied by the Moon at the time~a) in a~y Zodi.acal sign. Note the Zodiacal sign whose name tl1e Dwa.dasamsa bears. Count from the next sign as many signs as the number of Dwadasam!iM by which the Moon may have advanced in any particular sign, When the Moon comes to such iast sign the birth of the child wi!_l occur. Again, the birth will occur by day or by night aocol'd• iog as the rising N avamsa at the· time iis a day or a night Navamsa. The hour of birth from son-rise or snn-set may be calculated from the portiou of the· 1·isiug Nav~wsa that may have risen above the horizon. Notes, (a) At the time of coucepUon, or query according to Commentator. Io this stanzathe aut.hor purposes to discover the time of child-birth from the time of conception or query. Suppose the Moon to occupy, say, the 8th Dwadusamsa of sign Aqua.rius at the time. This Dw&dasamsa is kuown as the Dw~ dasamsa of Vil'go (Kanuya). The sigu next to sign Vil'go in the Zodiac is sign Libra ('l'ula). As the Moon occupies the 8th Dwadasa.maain sign Aquarius, the 8th sign from Libra is sign Taurus, The child will therefore be born when the Moon passes fihrough sign Tam·us, The Commentator adds th1tt the particular star which the Moon would oooupy at the time of birth might be dis.covered from the advance made by her in the pnrticular Dwadasamsaocoupied by bel'. For instunoe, supposo • the Moont~~upy th~ middl~ ~!Ui~ 8th Dwadaaamsa in Aqui..Digitized by Google DRIBAT J1TAKA• rius; Tho middle of sign Taurus is tlae 2nd quarter of Star Jlohini ; so that at tho time of biith of the child the Moon will occupy th~ nstorism of Rolaini. Ag11i11if the rising Nnvnmsa for instance be %at of Sagittari, a night sign, the birth will occur_ at night. The time of birtli fr:>m tmn-set should be calculated by propor.tion from tl10 time by whiob the Navams11 of Sagittari may have risen abo1e th~ horizon-the period of oblique ascen.sion or tho Navamsa roprcsenting the period of the whole night. , The sex of the issue can bo delormjned from. stanzas 11 to 16. 22, IC at the time of conception, the Navamsa of Saturn(a) begin to rise and if Saturn occnpy the seventh house from the rising 11ign, there will be delivery after three years; nnd in simifar case of tl1e .Moon(b) there will be delivery after twelve years, Which of the sevel'al Yogas described in tlais Chapter are appliCAble to tho time of birth also, shall be dotermiood on t.bo nature o( such Yogns(c). Notes. (a) Tbn.t is the Navamsa of Makar or Kumbha. (b) If the Navamsa of Cancer alaould be6in to rise and if the Moon should occupy the sovonth house from I.ho rising sign, • (c) For instnncc, YogM relating to tho birth of ohil• dron with extra or defective organs, nre to bo taken to refer ns much to the time of birth as to tho time of conception. As regards such Yogas as those rclnting to the misonniago of pregnancy and the like, tht'ly nre to be taken to refer to tbQ time of conception a.lone. Digitized by Google 11T.ll:A:t,a. !S.J ·, •BJml.lT OHAPrER V. OH MATTIBS OODICTJD WITH Burm T.DII. t. If, at the time or birth of a child the rising sign be not aspeoted by the M.oon, the father will not be near when the child is born-and if .in auch a case, the Buo should occupy the 9th or the 8th house, the father wool-;) be in a foreign country if the house be a movable sign, in his own country if the house be a fixed sign, and would be return• iog to his country if the house be a common sign. 2. Ir, at the time of birth. Saturn be in the rising aign or Mars in the setting sign, or the Moon between(a) Mercury and V enoa,the father will not be near. Notes. (a). Whether MMcury and Venus occupy the signs on both sides of the Moon or occupy the same sign aa the Moon. 8. If, at the time or birth; the Moon be in the Drekl kana of Mars(a) and ifbenefi.o planets be in the 2nd and 11th houses from the ri11ing sign, the issue will be a serpent. If the sign(b) of a mR.lefio planet be the ascendant sign, and if. the Drekkana of Mars should then be rising, the iBSue wil be a child~born with a serpent coiled round iliabody. Notes. (a). These Drekkanas of Afars are-tl1e lr,t Drekkaoa of Aries, the 2nd of Cancer, the 3rd of Leo, the 1st of Scorpio, the 2nd of &gittari, and the 3rd of Pisces. (b). Aries, Cancerwhen it is waning Moon, Leo and Scorpio. •4. If, at the time of birth tho Sun be in n.quadruped sigo and the other planets be all powel'fwand in the com mon signs, the issue will be twins. 6 i. If7 at th!) timtt of birth, ,4.rie•,L,eq ~r T ... l'1J8 RQ ihe rieil}g eigq, apd jf Satqrn or lfa~ ® ip •P.P\ ~jgn1 t~ft jss~e will be a child born with ~h<> µmbilipal poril twjoe4 J'Olpl,dtqe p .. rt oF~o~r judic,at<,d}?y~P,eFiaPJglfay,t~(p)~ Digitized by Google Notes. (a). If the N4nman,of Ari~ be ihitrisiQg N4Y&PJSlf, ~t the time, thell roQnd the head ; if it be tbq.i; QC Ta-qrqs, then round the face and ao pq., f<!lJowing ~Jl,djvjslo~• ~, it~ebo~y referred~ in S~an,a 4, Cpap,~!-' :J'. tJ. If Jupiter at the time oC~irlh f•il tq ~pee~ bqtq. ihe as~endant sign and the Mooo(a) ortbe ¥00? when ~ popjupptiQ'I}wit'!J the Sun, or ffthe Moqn qe in coojqnc~io~ with the Sim when he is accompa~ied by ir,oaje~Q pl~etf· iJie iss~e ~il~ be ,n ~4enitiffiate child: • • ~otes~ (a)~ Jf,f~pite~ aepe~t e~~h!3r ~~~ (?D~ or the ot~e~ th~ phild will not be le~itimate~ Accordio; tq Yavane~wara, ff'efth!3r ~he ~~e~da~~ ~avamsa or the Nav~sa occupied by the ~oon ~e that o~ ;Jupiter, the chi!d will not )>e fllegitim.ate. Accor~~ng to o,rg,, if the Moon should RC®py a e~gq. of Jupiter, or if ~he ~e in conj1:n~~Hon with Jupiter in any p~~er "ii'!,or if the ~0011 be in the Drekk~~ or Navams, of Jupiter, tho ~hilJ wHl ~ot,'P,e~eJ.itimate! !· If, a~ t~e ~ime of bi~th~ two malefio planets~a) QCCupy one of ihf) µiaJ~fio sign(~)~ apd i~ ~qe?, sign be the ~th, 7tq pr 9th honse frpJn ~~e Sun? tJ1e faiher pf the chilq.winbe in !Jp,tody at the ~jme~ If the Snp 09eqpy a ~ovttble sign, th"' father wil~ p,e B(! jn foreign la~ds; i~ be opoupy ~ fixe~ eigq the fat~er wi\l ~ ju cqstody in hia own country, and if bt:t pooupy a commop s~~n~ ~~~ f~t~e~ 1!~1! ~e ~!> 9'!1 J1i, Wft;f ffl ~~ na~iyepo~nt,1·r! . Digitized by Google t1ia1r iATAU. . 41 Not.ea; {4)~ MarsandSaturn .• (b) Aties, :Leo, Scorpio, Capricorn, A.qdariiis, Cancer wHeti it ii warling Mdou, aiid Gemini and Virgo _when itefcuryis in oonjaoct.ion witli nialefto planet.a. 8. • if ibe Moon be full and in Cancer; if Mercury be in the rising sign and Jupiter in the 4th House, the .birth wih occor in Ii boa't. .A.gain; if the watery eigns begin to rise and if the Mooti lie in the 7th house, then too the birth wilt oc6ur in a bo.tt. ~. tra waterysign begin io rise, tlie birth will oertaiii.ly oticdt-on t.be banks of wa6en, iC(j_) the Moon be a1soin · a waterysign, or (2) if the Moon be fuli and aspect. the ris.ing •ign; or (8) ifthe Moon oeiii t.lie 10th or 4th house or in ~a. 0.4.-C• 10. ICthe Moon oocopy the rising sign and if Saturn occupy the 12th house and be aspect.ed by a malefic planet, the birth will occur in a prison. Agn.in, if either Scorpio or Cancer begin to ri,e n.nd be occupied by Saturn and aspected by the Moon, the birth 1rill ooour in a ditch. l 1. ICa watery sign begin to rise and if Saturn oooupy it and be aspected by Mercury, the Son, or the Moon, the birth will ooour respectiveiy in a pleasure house, a temple or sterile ground. 12. If a.biped sign berising, and i£ Saturn occupy it and be aapeoted1,y Mars, the birth will be in cremation ground; if aspeoted by Venus and the Moon, the birth will occur in some beautiful and agree11.blo spot ; if aspocted by Japiter, then in' the .Agnihotra Sala(ci) ; if aapected by the Suo, then in the King's palace or a temple or a oow shed and if aapeoted by Mercury tho birth will occur iu on arti at'a working room. Digitized by Google DJUBATJAUJQ. .• Notes. (a). A place where the sacred fire ii kept and worsbipped~ IS. The birth willoccurIn plaoes(a) represented by the rising· sign or Navainsa,whiobeveris powerf11l.ICsuch sign or Navamsab~a movableone, the birth willoccur in roads ; f fixed,then, within a building( l,). If the rising Navamsa be a Vargottama one, the house will be the Ulother'il own property. St.\. H ~\~•. .+ ~:,.,.\ ,r,\ \ ,.:. :l' 4,) . !totes; (a), These places are those referred to in Stanza 5, Chapter I. We will give here the several places appro.priate to the several signs of the Zodiao. I Mesha represents tbe abodes[.(cavea) or U10 sheep, mountains, the residence iof an army, a fire place, metal· mines and mines where precious stones aro found. ~ Virshbha represents forests, bottom of bills, places , frequented by ,he elephants and caUle..and dwelling places of the farmer. Jf Mithuna represents places frequented by womenlearned in muaioand painting for purpose or either play or to carry love messages to lovers. Kataka represents rice fields, tanks, sand banks aud • places frequented by the nymphs.. j)., Simha represents forests, inllOOessibleplaces, caves, mountains covered with forests and places ft·equented by forestmen, ')ttf KanyA represents places overgrown• with grass • •Twomen1s sleeping apartments, and female schools, . .A Tula represents caatoma houses, middle st.~eets,bazars, • Digitized by Google UJBA'f JATHA. ,oaas leading to towns, market place1, high gre111ldand places where crops grow. • 11v' •V rischlka represents caves, rort.ifled towm, d.itobett, places where there are poisonodS atonee, and bills and snake holes and scorpion boles. Dhanosrepresents good and even plndes wbete there nro horses or cavalry men or armed men, pJncos of aoori_. fi:ci.l fito coremonios or whore vehi!)les are kept. "rj' Makararepresents rivers, gardens, forests, tRnks, water banks and ditcbea. -\\\4c'.· Knmbba represents placos freqnentecl by birds, by wome·n,hr dealers in liquor or by gambleH. , )( Meena represent.a temples, places frequented by the :prahmins, holy waters, rivers and seas, , ,, 1P~· (b), ICboth fixed and movable, the birth would occur •\Ir, ., i .J tf in the oater verandah ofthe house. . U, If. at the time of bidb, Mars and Satnm ocoupy single sign, and if the Sun or the Moon (a) occupy the 5tb or the 9th house from them, the child will be deserted by its mother; bot if the Snn or the Moon be aspected by Jupiter, the child though abandoned by its mother will live long and in comfort. Notes. (<i), If the Moon occupy the setting sign according to some other reading. 15. If a malefic planet (<1) aspect the Moon in the rising sign, Mars occupying the 7th houBP,or if Mars and Batum occupy the llt.h house from the Moon when in ihe rising sign, the child deserted by its mother will die, If the Moon be also asp~ted by a powerful beoefi.c planet(b), the deserted obild will fall into the lands of the class of men represented by the aspectiDg benefic planet; Digitized by Google JJ'&iBATiATAX.li and will iive: if the aap&oting malefic p1anei be powe~tui'., the deserted. child willf•ll info tlie b'arids' of others· a.'nd will pel'ish; (a). Saturn or Mars. (b). it' Jupiter" aspoo1 the Moon, none of tf)'ese evils will befall the child: 16. If a paternal planet be powe·rful, t'lie bh-t~' wiJl occur in the father,11 house; if a niuternal plano·t be powcl'ful,· the birth will occur in the mothe1·'s house; it' three beneftc' j>i,mets be powerful; tile' birth wi'll occur at the foot of wa.lls or trees; and if th1·ee planeu· ocoQp)\ing a:sing1e sign f~il to aspect the Lagna and the Moon, the birth will occiir in a fotesf. 17. Jf the Moon occupy the Nava:msaof Saturn or ttie 4-th house·(a) /;·om'tagna, or if she be aspected 'by . Saturn, orif she occupy a wat~ry Navamsa(b) or the same house as Saturn, the birth will occur in a dark spot(c), If three or more planets be in their Neeoha signs(d), the birth will o&ur on the bare ground (o). 'fhe birth will follow the manner in which the rising sign renches the l1orizon(f)• If malefic plo.net.s occupy the 4th or 7th house, the mother will suffer much fromtravail (g). Notes. (a). YavanachariRr uses the word Kandra, meaning the 1st, 4,t.11,7th nod l0Lh houses, (b). W11.terNa.vamaas are those of Cancer and Pisces. (c). If the sun be powerful and be aspected by Mars, there will be no darkness, (d). Saravali has the wol'd, '' Neecha SamstluJ, ,, that is, if the Moon be in her Neecba sign, ,JU, Scorpio. (o). Ou grouuJ, covtmid with straw according to Commentator, Digitized by Google Pl~T JAT.H'.l_•. (/).. • -Th•t is, if the sign be one that rise, with ita Jtead, then the head of th,e ol1~ld will appear fil'8t ; if the .aign b.e .o~o that ri'M with its .'8il1 tl}.e leg of the child ~ill appear first: and if it be one that ris~ with both its Jiea4an.cl•~ej as sign Pisces, fihe litnds will appe~ firs •• According to certain CommeQl_at,qrs tbii, part ,of the ~;Kt is interpret,i,4 as f.~_1/t'!!S: If the lord of the r~ing Jign be in his direct course, the birth will be a natural ,one ; and ~, in hi11 r.otrogade m~tion, the birth will be an ir. J"egular one. This meaning has the support of Manittha, (g). Or if malefic planets occnpy the same sign as tb_o Moon, the ,no.ther will eufe,: ,1·q~ ir~r•Jl. 18. The oil shall be determined from the Moon(a),the wick from the rising sign(/,} ; the fixed or other nature of the lamp shall b~ .d,etermined from the sign occupied by the Sun(c). The entrance to the room wm be in the direction of the powerful planet occupyi~g a ~endra(d) or' in that of tl,ie mosli pow,erful plane~. Notes. (a). That is, if the,M.oon occupy the beginning of a 13ign, the <'il of the Jr,.mp ii,. the delivery room will be foll; ·jf the Moon occupy the middle sigt), the oil will be one-ho.If, ,s,nd if the Moon occ~pJ the end of a sign, there will be nQ pil in the li,.mp; in other words, the quantity of oil varies with the positioQ. of ,he Moon in t~e si~n opoupjed. QJ "4er~ . .A.ccordiqg to $arayali, i£ the MQOn be full the oil wilJ J>e foil and the quantit,y of the oil v1J,1·ies witlJ, the iH•m1h1eiJ porLion of the Moonta disc. B11tte. ULpnla, the Commtiilta.tor, objects to this view, for he says that if suoh were the ~n.se, children born on new-moon do.ya shou~d aJwayah~ ll2FP.-~ ~4e~,r~~~h~s pan11-otbe: • • Digitized by Google 46 BBmA'I UTAJC!.': [OK.t (b). That is, if the beginning ef a slgo begin to rise, . the wick will be long and unburnt; if the middle of the aign begin to rise, the wfok will ho half burnt; and if the end of tho sign begin to rise, the wick will be nearly wholly bnrnt. In ether words, the length of the wick va1iea with the posit.ion of t,he point of the rising sign in contact with the horizon. The wick is of the color of the rising sign. (o}, That is, if the sign occupied by the Son be a fixed one, the lump will be fi:J:~din some place; if movable, the lamp will be can·ied by some body in the hand; and if both fixed and movable the lamp will be a swinging lamp. The Commentator adds that the lamp will be in the direction qsaigned to the signs occupied by the Sun, Aooordiog to aomo the lamp will be in the dirootion of _the sib'll (oat of 12 equal parts into which the room may be divideJ) ooco.pied by the Sun. This latter. division evidently refers to the division referred to in the Introduction in connection with Horary Astrology: According to others again dividing the 24 hours of day and night into 8 equal parts of 3 hoUflJ each, beginning from ion-rise, the lamp will be ia the Ea.st, S . .East, Soutb, &o., according as the time of bh-th falls in the lat, 2nd, 3rd, &o., ~rts of the divisiuu. (d) If there are no planeta in the Ke11dras, the on.t1-anoe will he in the direction of th~ Lagna according t~ Swalpa Jatllka.. 19. If Saturn be powerful, the birth will pccur ins. hoose which, having become old, bas been rebuilt. If Mars be powerful, the birth will occur in a hoose pa1-tly burnt; if the Moon be powerful, then, in a newly built house; if tho Son be powerfol, the birth will Qccur in a house uuihi of wood but weakj if M13rCury be powerful then in a housG Digitized by Google CH. 5.J BRIBAT J.A.'l'AK!. 47 bnilt by eeveral builders; if Venus be powerful, then in a beRutiful ~ew hooae adorned with pictures; and if Jupiter be powerful, the birth will .occur iu a strong house. Notes. According to Baravali, if the Sun occupy the sign occu.pied by tho most powerrut plrmet os given jn the text., tl,o delivery will occur in the room set apart for the worship or the Devas ; if the Moon oc.oupy the sign occupied by tht, most powerfol planet, the birth will oocur in the bath or water room ; if Mara,then in the kitehen or tho Agnihotra Sala; if Mercury, in the bed room; if Jupiter, in the trea~ sore room; if Venus, then in the J>lay ground; and if Saturn, the birth will ocoa, in the place where sweepings are deposited. The OommentatoJ' ~ds if there be three or more planets in the three signs beginning from that oooopied by the mos.t powerful planei, there will be houses on ibe eastern aide ; if in the uext throe signs, there will be houses on the south~ .em aide; if iu the next three, there will be houses on the western aide ; and if ju the la.,~ three, there will be houses .on the northern aide, .Again, according to Laghu Jataka, if Jupiter at the same time bein the 10th house from tbe&scenclant.andin hie e;r:altation sign-having passed over the exaltation degree, the birth will occur in a.two storied house; if he be under the exaltation degree, the birth will ooc1,1r in a three storied house, and if in the exaltation degree, then in a fonr storied honse. Again, if Sign eagittnri be powerful, the birth will occur in a house consisting of 3 inner v.era.ndahs; • if Jupi.ter occupy the 10th house from .the ascendant 01· one of the 7 Digitized by Google BRIRAT .U.TAEA. [CH. 5. signs Geinini, Virgo and Pisces, the hou.se will be one with two inner ve1·andahs. 20. If eitl1er the ascendant sign, or the nt1oendnnt Navamsa, (whichever is powerful) be that of .Al'ies, Cancer, Libra, Scorpio, or Aquarius, the delivery room will be iu the e~11tern portion of the house ; if it be tlu,t of Sagittari, Pisces, Gemini 01· Virgo, thf:ln in the northe1·u portion of the l1ouse ; if it be that of 'J.'au1·us, then in the western portion ; and if it be tho.Ii. of Capricorn 01· Leo, the Juli very roon.\ will be in the southeru portion of the housa. 21. If the rising sign be Aries or Tuurus, the bed of the woman in labor will be in the eastern portion of tho room; if the rising sigo be Gemini, it will be in the south• eastern portion ; if Cancer or Leo, the~ in the southem portion ; and if Virgo, then in the south-we~tern po1·tion.. if Lib1·a or Scorpio, then in the ,vestefn portion .i and if Sagittari, then in the north-western portion , if Capl'icorn or Aquanus be the rising sign, the bed will be in the no1·th~ ern po1·tion of the room, and if Pisces be the rising sign, it ·will be in the north-eastern portion of t\le room, The same r11le applies as reg•.-d" the place in the bed or cot where the wo~an mjgl11i lie. As regards the co$, ,ga•n, its two fl'Ont legs occupy t\1e ~\lu\·t~r11assigned to the 12th and 3rd houses f~w. the ascendant and •t, two hiu~ legs occupy the qlllil·te1·s ~1uiig11ed to t,he 6th aud 9th houses.(a). NQtes, (a) In othe1· words the Jith and :h·d llo\lSeS 1·ep1,'esent the fore legs; the 9th and 6th houses r.ep1·e1,~11tthe hind legs; the 3rd and 6th ho\lses. represent the two right legs, and the l!?th and 9th houses l'epresent tlia two left legs. Also the rising sign and the 2nd house represent the bead • of the cot, the 4th and 5th houses 1·epresen~ tlie ri~ht si\!~ ; Digitized by Google CR, o,] the 7th ana 8th houses represent the pa.rh between the two hind legs, and the 10th and 11 t.h houses represent tho left. side. Now whatever portion of t.he cot may be repre.sented by the. common signs, there the cot will be bent down a little, nnd this will not. be the case if such sign is eithe1· occupied or aspeeted by its lord or by a benefi.o planet Again, there will be defects in those parts of the Cl\t which are represented by signs • occupied by malefi.o planets, 11.ndthis will not be the case if such malefic planets be in their eult.11.tion signs, in their :Moola Tdkona signs, in friendly sign8 or in their own houses. 22. • 'l'ht1 number of midwives will he tho number of the planets between the. rising sign and the Moon. Of these planets the number of those in the visible hemisphere wi.ll be the number of midwives outside the room, and the number of planets in the invisible hemisphere will be the nu~ber of midwives inside the room. According to some ~his order is revereed.(a). Notes. (a) That is, of the planets between the.Lagna and the Moon, the number in the visible hemisphere is the number of midwives within the room, and the number of planets in the invisible hemisphere will be the number c-f midwives ontside the room, In this view Varaha Mihira does not concur, for it is opposed to his Swalpa Jahka. Again, if benefio planets occupy the signs from Lagna to the :Moon, the midwives will all be beautiful women, well dressed and adorned ; if malefic planets occupy the signs, the women will be dirty, ugly and with no 01·na• meote. .Again, if any of the plan_ets between the Lagoa and tllG :Moon be in their exaltation signs or retrog1-ade in motion, the number given by them shall be trebled. Bot if they be Digitized by Google Jn their own signs, Navamsas or Drekkan&s, &c.,the number given by the sevel'al planets shall be doubled, ~8. The structure and other peculiariti,s(a) of the body shall be determined from the lord of the risiug Navom.sa or ft-om the most powerful plauet J and the colo1{b) 0£ the body shall be determined fa·om the (Lord of.tbeJNavam.sa occupied by the Moon ; and the size of the several parts of the body will follow the signs representing them, begin.iug fl-om the i-ising sign which 1·epresents tlae head(c). Notes. (a) These are given in stanzas fi-om 8 to 11 iii Chapter II. The Commentator adds that if the sign represented by tlie rising Na.va1nsa be poWt,..f ul, then tbe physical poculia1 i.ties shall be determined from the lord of soch Navamsa ; if not they shall l>e determined from the most powerful planet. (b) This is given in st~nza 4, Chapter II, Accordingto some, the color must Le determined from the sign occupied by the Moon, vide stanza 20, Chapter I. 'l'o this the Com.mentator ohjects. For he says that there are no people of ~e color of the parl'ot. In dete1·miuiog the color, the country., the climate, occupation. and the like shall be taken into account. (c) The division of body refol'red to here is the same as that referred to in Stanza 4, Chapter I, with this diffei·.onoo that while the lattor begius from 11ign .Aries, the for.mer begins from the rising sign. 'l'he di visions are as fol• lows: ~•he rising sign represents the bead ; the 2nd honse ropreseuts the face ; the 3rd, the breast; tl,e 4tl1, the heart ; the 5th, the be11y ; tbe 6th, the hip ; the 7th, the lower abdomen ; the 8th, the genital organ ; the 9th, the two thighs; the 10th, the two knees; the 11th, the two shanka Digitized by Google 51cut. &.] • IIBIBAT .TA.T.ll:A; tt.nd the 12th; t1u! two feet. Now in st.Anza 19 of Chapter I, the relative tttagnitudes of the several 11igns of the Zodiao are given as follows 1 A JAries .. , .. ,.,20-Pisces: ' t Ta.urns .. u ... 24-Aquarms, n.j Gemini ...... u28--:-Cap~icor.n,l Oanoer ........ 32-Sttg1ttar1, c.{L?o·, , ......... ~6-S?ot·pio. Vargo ........ .40-Labra, Of these the 4 signs referred to in division .Aare knowii as short signs. The 4 of division i3 are known as signs of middle length and the .Jiof division O are known as long signs. So thl\t that part of the-body will be long or short according as the sign representing it is iong or sbo1·t. If the Jord of n. shol't sign occupy a Jong sign, or if the lord of a long sign occupy a short sign, the size of the part of body represented will be of -middle length• If several planets occupy a sign, tl1e most powerful of them shalJ be ta.ken into account, and if no planets oocupy a Etign, the size of the part of body wiU simply follow that of the sign, 24. The tliree-foJd divisions of the body beginning from the head, frob:I. the neck and from tlie Jower abdomen ' according as the rising D1·ekkana is the first, the second or the third, are as follows: Part of body represented when the rising • Drekkana is · Thn twelve Houses. 1-------,------------.'l'be fir&t. 1.'rite seooud. 'l'bo third. TJ10 rising Ilead. Neck. ILowol' o.b_dotnen, sign. Digitized by Google BBilliT JAT.A.U, 2nd house ... lRight eye ... Right arm ... Genital organ. 12th ,, ... Leh eye ••. Leh arm •. Anll8. l'rcl ,, ... ll.ight enr ... Right hand ... Right testicle. 111.h ,, ... 1,6ft oar ... Left hand ... Lllft. testicle· 41.h ,, ... Right nostril. Right side ... H.ight thigh, 10th ,, ... Left nosta·il ... Left aide ... Left thigh. ISth ,, ... Right temple. Hight breast •.. Right knee. 9th ,, •.. Left temple ... Left breast ... Left knee. 6th ,, ... Right cheek ... Right belly ... Kight ankle. 8th ,, ... Left cheek ... Left belly ... Left ankle. 7th ,, ... Mouth ... The navel ... l'he feet. 25. W c,unda will oocur in those parts of bony the signs representing which are occupied by malefic planets; but if such signs be occupied or aspeoted by benetio planets, moles will appear in those parts ; if suob malefic or benefic planets be in their own signs or Navamaaa or in fixed signs or fixed Navamsas, the wound or the mole will exist from birth ; othe1·wise they will appear at a futui·e time(a). As regards wounds, if the planet causing it be Saturn, the wound will be caused by a stone or by the wind ; if Mars, then by fire or weapon or by poison; iC (malefic) Meronry, it will be caused by earth; if the Sam, then by wood or by quadru.peds; if the· (waning) Moon, then by horned animals 01· by wa.tet· animals. There will be no wound in those pa1•t.,of the body whioh are represented by signs ocoupied by tlae bcme.fio planets(b). Notes. (a) That is, in the da.sa or planetary periods of the several planets. (b) By Jupiter, Venus, (benefic) Mercury ancl wax.ing Moon. For the purposes of this stanza the division of body is that. rererred to in stanza 24,. 20. If three planets, whether malefio or bene6o occupy Digitized by Google cu. 6 . .J BRIHAT UTA.KA. 63 " aioglo sign, a wound or a ffll)le will appenr without fail in the parts of body represented by the sign.(a) Ag1tin in the diviaioo(b) of the body into twelve parts beginning from the head (which the Lagna represents) if a malefic planet oo.oopy the sixth house a wound will appear(c) (in the hip); bllt if the ma.le6o planet be aspected by a beuefio planet, both a dark and a white mole will appear; but if benefio planets occupy the sixth house, there will ooly appear a orowded growth of hair, NOTF.s. (a} 'l'be division of body 1·eferred U>is that given iu stanza~. (b) Tl)edivi,sion ref~rred to is that given in Note (c) to stanza 23. (c) In the dasa. period of the most powerful planet. Also, if the planet occupying the 6th hoo1te be in bis own flign or Navamsa or in a fiJ!:ed sigQ. or Navamsl!t,~bewouDd or ~4e mol~ ,rill e:1:ist frolQ. birtl}. OIJAPT,fJR VI. ON ~~ARISHT4 OR EA~LT DliTH, I. H the birth should occor in the Sandbyakala(a) ,the twilight houri!) when thelunar lfora (b)should be rising ,-nd when tnRlefio vlanets occupy the last Navamsaa of signEi, th~ child would die soon -.,ftel!bMb. Again, if at the time of birth, the Moon and three malefic pll\nets occu.py the foµr ~ePdras, one ill eioh., tbeq aJ110 t4e C)bild would die. ~otes! (a). 811ndby•kala; This is defined by the n.utbor in his Brihat Sambita, st.an~ 1, eh. 30; f' That period which pfecedea the pioinen$ when the S11~ has jus\ half risen and Digitized by Google BRIBAT U.TAEA. [OB, 6. that wlifoh succeeds the moment when the 811n hns just hnlf set, .during which the stars are invisible, is known as ~andhynk"la or twilight period.'' (b} In the odJ iigns, tlae second halves, and in the ~van signs the first halves are known as lunal' Horas. ~-ICejtl1er 1Jigo Cancer 01· sign Scol'pio should rise at ~he timo of birth and if malefic planers occupy the east .. .em half of the Zodiac while tho beJ)oflc planets occupy tho western hnlf(a), the child wonlll die immediately after l>il'th. Again, if malefic planets ocoupy tl1e 12th u.ud 2nd J1ouses ot• ~he 6~h and 8th houHel} from the l'isiJJ.g si~, the .child wo!lld die, Notes,, (a). The plane of meridian divides the Zodiac into two equal halves known as the Eastern and Wastern halves; so that if the 10° of Cancer, for instance, should be l'ising at tJ)e time, the F;astern h~Jf would roughly compl'ise U10 portion of the Zodiac ffoµi_the 10° of Aries to the 10° of ftiq1·~ ; al)q the Wester11 half would comprise the po1·tiou of the Zodinc from the 11)0 of Libr" to the I 0° of A1·ies. (b). Actording to cert,-iu Commentators~ the two yogas are t&k13DtQgether an<l made to form a single yoga, I~ other WOl'ds, the:cbild would die under the fiut yoga only if malefic pla11e~11 occupy tho 2nd, the 12th, the 6th p.nd the 8Lh houses. Accordiqg Ul Q~rga ihere will be death in each of the following four yogas ; ( J) Malefic planets occupying t~h aud the 12th houses; (2) tp.e 8th and 2nd houses; (;j)"the 12tl) 11.nd ~1?-dhoqses; (4) tb13 8t4 11.nd l1t4 }lora~s. 3. If the rising sign, the sot.ting sigq ~nd the sign '9ccupied by the Muuu 1,e ~l\<?4 09qupieµ u1 ~ p11lJefi9.pla:qet Digitized by Google 011. 6.] and i£ the Moon be not aspected by beneflc plane ls, the child will die immediately aft;er birth. '-ICthe waning Moon occupy the 12th house from the ascendant, if the malefic planets occupy the rising sign and the 8th bous_e, and if beoe6c planets do not occupy the Kendraa, the.child will die immediately after birth. IS, If the .Moon attended by a malefic planet occ~py the rising sign or the 7th, 8th or 12th house, and if benefio planets do not occupy the Kendras, the child will dio soon after birth, 6. If, when the Moon ooouP.ies the 6th or the 8th house from tho aacendabt, a malefic planet aspect the same the_child will die soon after birth ; if a benefic planet alone aspect it, the child will die after 8 years ; an~ ir both a be.nefic and a malefie planet aspect the :Moon, the child will die 4 years after birth(a); but if a benefic planet (occupy.ing the 6th or the 8th house) be aapected by powerful male. &c planets(b), or if the lord of the rising sign occupy the 7th house and be defeated in planetary fight· (conjunction) by a.malefic planet(o), tho child wiUdie a month after bin_h. Notes. (a), In connecMonwith this, Yavaneswara says: If the 6th or the 8th house occupied by the Moon be the house of a benefic plRDet, or if the Moon be accompanied by a benefic planet, even though he mny be in a malefic sign the child will not die. Mandavya says : If the birth; ·occur by day in the dark half or by night in the bright half of the month, there wilt be no deat.hs even if the Moon occupy the 6th or the 8th house and be nspected by both malefic and benefic planets. (b}. In the absence 0£ beno6c phnets n.spectingthe ·Moon, adds_tbe Commentator. Swnlpa Jntnka has the fo11owing: 8 Digitized by Google BBIUATUTJ.U. '' By malefic planets or by planets retrograde in tbeit motion." (o). The planet that generally suffers defeat in con• jnnotion, is tl,e southern one, one of fo1·bidding appear-.auce, one of flickering light, one retrograde in motion or of small size, or in oonjuncUon with the Sun, or which is of unusual appearance or without light or color. 7. If the waning Moon occupy the rising sign and if malefic planets occupy the 8th house and the Kendr~, or if the Moon occupy the 4th, 7th or 8th house and bo between malefic planets, the child will die. Again, if the Moon occupy the rising sign and be between malefic planets and if malefic planets occupy the 7th and 8th house11 and powerful benefic planets fail to aspect the Moon(a), both the mother and tbe cwld will die. Notes, . . I (a). If they do aspect the Moon, the mother will escape and the child will die. 8. If ut the timo of birth the Moon occupy the last Navamsa. of a sign and not be aspected by benefic planets, oi• if malefic planets occupy the 6th and the 0th houses or if the Moon occupy the rising sign and malefic planets occupy the 7th house, tho child will die soon after birth. 9. It at the time of bil'th the eclipsed ·Moon occupy tho rising sign with a malefic planet(a) while Mars occapies the· 8th house, both the mother and the infant will die. If instead of the Moon, the San(b) be in a similar position., such death will be co.used by weapons. .Aga.io, if either the Sun or the Moon occupy the rising sign and if malefic pla.nets occupy the 5th, 8th and 9th houses, the child will die, if either the Sun or the Moon be neither ltSfected nor ac.companied by powerful bonefic planets. Digitized by Google ••. 6,] BBlHAT JAT.ln. r,7 Notes, (a). That is Saturn. (b). That is, if the eclipsed San occupy the rising sign accompanied b1 a malefic planet (either Mercury or Saturn), while Mara occupies the 8th honse. 10. IC nt the time of birth, Saturn, the Sun, the •Moon and Mars occupy respectively the 12th, 9th, let and the 8th houses, the child will die soon after birth if tho planets be not aspected by powerful Jupiter. Notes. To aspect all the four planets, Jupiter must oooopy the 5th house. If J"upiter should aspect only some of the foul' planets, or if he be weak though he might aspect all the four planets, the cllild will die, So that the .cbilcl will escape death only if powerf ol Jopiter nspoct all tho {our planets. 11. If, at the time of birth, the Moon (a) accompanied by a malefic planet occupy the f>tb, 7th, 9th, 12th, lat or 8~h house, and . if she be neither aooompainied nor as.pected by powerful Venus, Mercury or • Jupiter, the child will die soon after birth, Notes. (a). The Moon is the waning Moon nocording to Sa.• ravnli, 12. The death will occur when the Moon cC1mes eitbor to the sign occupied by the powerful planet causing suob death, or to the sign occupied by herself at; tire tiroe of birth or to tho rising sign at the time, provided the Moon is both powet·Cul and nspocted by powerful malefic planets,; and the Manis say • tb11rb the pel'iod for suoh death is 1• year.(a) Digitized by Google .ss BJURAT JATAXA• Notes. (a}, The Moon makes about 18 revolulioris in the oonrse of a year, Whenever tl10 Moon in the oourse of motion bccomt1s powedul and is nepected by powerful malefic planets on reaching ~one of the three places men.tioned iu the text, the death will occur. Note•:-'!'ho Commentator now proceeds lo describe a number of yogl\8 which counteract the several Balariahta yogas given in the text. 'J'hey are given below. • 1, If powerful Jupiter occupy the rieing sign, \here will be no early death. 2. If the lord ot' the rising sign be powerful, be not ospeoted by malefic planets and be aapected by benofio pla.ne&soccupying the Koodras, the child will live long. s. Evon though the Moon should occupy the 8th house, if she should, at the same time, oooupy the Drek.kana of Jupiter, Mercury or Venus, there will be no early . death, 4, If the :Moon be full, iCshe should occupy benefic signs, be between benefic planets and be aspecled by Ve~ nus, there will be no early death. • 6. If either Mercury, Venus or Jupiter be powerful and occupy a Kendra, tbet·e will be no early death even if he be accompanied by n malefic plant . . 6, Thongh th~ Moou occupy tho 6th house there will bo no earl1 death if she occupy the Drekkana of Jupiter, Voousor Me1·cu1·y. • 7, If the Moon be full and be between benefic planets, ·there will be no eal'ly death. • 8. IC the Moon be full 01· if the birth occur during the day whou it is wuning Moon, or during the night when Digitized by Google BBIBAT .JATALl• o9 it is waxing Moon, there will be no .early death even if the Moon occopy the 6th or the Sth:)iouae. 9, If the Moon be full and.be nspected by Jupiter occupying a Kendra, there will be no early death. 10. IC Jupiter, tbe Moon, Venus and :Mercury occupy lie houses, the Navamsasor the DrekkaJiasof benefic pla.nets, thero will bo no ea.rly den.th. • 11, If either tho lord of tho l1ouao occupied by tho Moon 01· if a benefio pnlnet ocoupy a Kendra, there will be no early death, 12, IC malefic planets occupy beoefic Vargas (divi.aion,) and be aspected by beoefic planets, oocupyuig benefio Vargas, there will be no early death, 18, If Rahu occupy the 3rd, 6th or 11th house nod be aspected by benefic planets, there will be no early death. 14. If all the planets occupy the Sirodaya signs, there will be no early death, 15, IC at the time of birth, a benefic plnnet succesa(ul in pla.neta.ry Dght (oonj11nction) ho aspectod by another benefio planet, there will be 110 early death. 16. If the full Moon be aspected by all the planets, there will be no early death. CHA.PT ER VII. OH AYuaDAYA oa THE DETKRllIHATioN OF THE LBNGT.11or L1H 1, According to Maya,Y:'avanacbarya_, Mauittba and Parasara, the maximum number or the yeurs of the Sun the Moon and planets are respectively 19, 25, 15, 12, 15, 21 • and 20 when the planets are in their exaltation degt·ees. Notes. In this oba.pter are given soveral methods for deter-Digitized by Google 60 :aanu.TJ.A.T.&.1:.1. [oa:.7. mining the length or human and other animal life from the planetary positions a.t the time of bia-tb. The author first p1·ooeeds to state what is known as .Pindayurdaya. 'l'ho years given by the Sun when in his exaltation degree is 19. ,,  ,,  Moon  ,,  ,,  ,,  25  ,,  ,,  Ma.rs  ,,  ,,  ,,  15  ,,  ,,  • Mercury  ,,  ,,  ,,  12  ,,  ,,  Jupiter  ,,  ,,  ,,  15  ,,  ,.  Venus  11  ,,  ,,  21  1,  11  Si\tUl'n  ,,  ,,  11  20  The exaltation signs with the exaltation degrees of the several planets are given in stanza 18, Oh I, Before the length of life oan be ascertained, the years given above have to be subjected to various redoolions . . 2. Ir the planets a.re in theh• depression degrees, their years will be one-ha.IC of those stated above ; if in any other places, the yea.rs shall be obtained by propodion(a). The number of years given by Lagoa is the same as the number of Navamsas of the rising sign thnt mny have risen above the horizon(b). Aocording to some(c) the number of years given by Lagna is the number of signs between the first point of A1·ies and the Lagna(d). Again, if a planet be in an inimical sign, he losos n third of his period(e); if be be an Astengatn(f) planet, he loses one-half; but no reduction need be mado in the case of Mo.rs (9) occupying an inimical sign, or in the 0388 of Saturn and Venns being As.tangata planets. • Notes . (a), Suppose, fo1· instance, the Sun to occupy the 21st degree of Sagittal"i, Requit-ed his years. The exaltation de.g1·ee0£ the Sun is the 10th degree of .A.des and his depress.aion degree is the 10th degt·ee of Lib1·a When in . the latter degree the number of yeo.rs of the Sun will be ono Digitized by Google on. V.] HIIUT JAT.lltl. 61 halt of whatitjsin t110 formet degree, i,., 6ne-hal£ or 19or 9l years. From the 10th degree of Libra to the 10th degree of Aries is 180 degrees. Bo that eve1·y _degree gives u\~ years. Now from the 10th degree of Libra totbe 21st degree of Sagittariis 2 signs and 11degrees i.e., 60+ 11 or71 degrees. 71 degrees give us 71X '. years= 8 years, k ~ . . YTff • months and 29 days. Adding this to 9l years, we get 13 years, 5 months and 2P days. The years of the other pla.nets may be similarly ascertainod. 'l'hese yeM'B are subjeot to certain reduotions as will be seen further on. (b). The author gives here what is known as Lagna• yurdaya, that is, the rising sign gives anumber of years in the same way as the planets do. A sign of Zodiao consist.ing of nine Navamsas gives us 9 years.. So that if the 10th degree of Leo be rising, the number of years given by Lagoa ,a X 9 years =8 ye&l's. ,·t(o). Some: Maniltba and men of his school. (d). In othor • words eaoh sign of the Zodiac gives a year ; so that if the 10th degree of Leo, the 6th sign f,·om Aries, be rising, the num berof years given by Lngna = 4,+ -U years =4 years, 4i months. The Commentator adds that in the case of Lagnayurdaya, the rule given in note(b) sl1ould be followed, if the lord of the rising Nc1,vat1uabe powerful, and t11atgiven in this note should be followed if the lord of the rising sign be powerful. (e). Planetary peiiod ascertained as per note(a). (f). A planet is said to be an .Astangata one wben lie disnppeora within II pnrLicular liauit from the Sun, his light being thon obscured by the light of the Sun. 'l'hia limit varies with different planets. In direct course, dis: appearance and ro-a.ppea.rance take place as follows : • Digitized by Google 62 [err.7. , Ma.rs wl1en·within'17 degrees t'rom the Slln, { Mercury , •.. .., 14 u ,, ,, Bnt when retrograde 12 ,, ,, ,, Jupiter ... ••• 11 ,, ,, ,, .fVenus . ... ... 10 ,, ,, ,, '\But~ when retrograde • e ,, ,, ,. Sl\turn 15 ,, ,, ,, ~'he Moon 12 • ,, ,, ,, (g). The word userl in the text is Vakra; this is nterpreted to mean Mars by some and into '' a. planet of retr~grade motion'' by others; So tl1nt, "acco1·ding to the ]atter,no reduction for being in an inimical sign need be made from his yeBrs if tbe pl.a.net be retrograde _in motion. In this view Varaha Mihira con ours. But the other view bas the support of ~ada.rnynna. 8. If malefip planets occupy tl1e 12th, 11th, 10th, ~th, 8th, or 7th house from the riaiug sign, a rednction in full, one of one-ball, ~ne-third~oue-fifth and one-sixth shall be· made respectively in the years obtained. If the planets occupying the so.id houses be benefio oned, the reduction will ouly be one-half (a) of what was . stated for t;each But if several planets occopy a single sign, the 1·educ;,tion shall be made £01· the most powe1·ful one. This is ac001·ding to Satyo.oharya.(b) Notes. (a), ,Where tl1e amount of reduction was stated •tobe f11ll in tho CI\SO of n malefic pln.not, it is ,011ly one-half in the on.so of a benofic pJnnet; whot·o it wa.ist1Lted to ho one-half in tbe fot•mer 011JSe,it i~ only' one-fourth in the_Iatter case, and so forth. (b). In this view Varaha Mihira concurs, • • • 4. If a malefic planet occapy the rising sign, then muUiply the tota.l number of yo11,raalready obtained by the , Digitized by Google ff, 7.] DRIIIAT JATAl'.A• C3 number of Navnmsas between tho first point of .A.~os nntl the Lagna of the l'ising Navamsa and divide the product by 108 .. The quotient -«ill,be the number of years to be suhtract.ed(a) from the ~otal number of years already ol,.tained(b). But if the malefio planet be nspect.ed by a bene .. fie one, the amoqnt of reduction will only be, oue-half of what was stat.ad above. Notes. (a). Tho redaction is known ns Krurodaya.barana. (b). According to some the number of years of. reduc.tion fa obtained by multiplying the total number of years already obtained by the number of Navamsasof tlUJriaing sig1'that have risen above the horizon anq dividinp: tho product by 108, the t.otal number of Navamsas of the Zodiac. 5. The maximum length of life of man and the ele.phant is 120 years and ndays, that of tho horse is 82 years, that of the ass and the oamel is 25 years~ that of the buft'&lo and the ox is 24 years, that of the dog~ (a) is /2 years, and that of the goat and the like(b) is 16 years.i:' Notes. To find out the length of life of an animal. Make the calcu.lation as for a man and multiply the result by the maximum poriotl of life of the particular nnimal and divide the pro.duct by 120 years and 5 days. The result will bo tho length of life of the animal reqairod. (a). Dog and animals with clawa. (b). Goat,the deer and the like, 6. The length of life of a person born when the last Nnvamsa of Piscos is rising, when Morcury hns just pa11secl 25 minutes in eign Taurns and whon all tho other planets occupy their exaltaUon signsis the maximum i,eriod of 120 years and 5 pays Digitized by Google 61 [ ... 'I. Notes. !!'he horoscope referred to in the text is given below. Venus, f Sun~ I Moon, Lagna. I Mercury, Jupiter. Mara. / Saturn, A..sall planets exceptingMeroury are iD their exaltation signs (and in their e-i.:o.ltation degrees as supposed by the Commentator) the years given by such planets are the maxi.mum yeal'B assigned to them. The maximum number of years ofMercury when in his eultation degree, viz., the 15th degree of Virgo is 12, and when in bis depression degree, viz., the 15th deg.ree of Pisces, is G. The re• maining 15 degrees of Pisces give us 6 months, Sign Aries gives us a year. Now the first degree of Tauras gives 12 days and therefore 25 minutes ofthe lat degree give us a~ 25.=5 days. So that the years of MerolU'y =6 years + 6 months + 1 year + 5 days =7 years, 6 months and oday~ . Asrain, as the end of sign Pisces was rising, aocordin,; to the Commentator the nine Navamsaa of sign Piscoa givo us 9 years ; so that we have the following~ • The. San •• 19 yrs. Jupiter ••• 15 yrs..I .The Moon.,25,, Venus ••• 21 ,, Man' ...15 ,, Sai;urn . . . 20 ,, Mercury ... 7 yrs,6 ms. 5 ds. Lagoa ... 9 ,, Now a reduction known as Ohakrapataharana is to be •&de from the yearsof Mara and Saturn, these two being Digitized by Google CB, T.] B&IIU.T JATilA, malefio planets, the former oconpying the 1Jtit house and the la.tier the 8th house from the rising irign.'5The amount of reduction therefore is one-half in the case of Mars and one-fifth in the case of Saturn. Accordingly after making the reduction, the years of Mars will be 7. and those of Saturn will be 16. lteductions known aa Sa.truksbetra• harana, Astangata harana and Krurodnya barana have not to be made iu this case. The Jl8Saltiog years theroforo aro.years. Months. Days. The.Sun ... 19 The Moon Mat·s 7 6 Mercury • . . 7 6 6 Jupiter ... 15 Venus ... ... 21 ... Saturn 16 ••• Lagoa 9 ·•• Total leug\h of life l 20 6 7. This Pindayurdaya method bas also been treated of by Vi1ohnugupta {a), Deva.swami and Siddha.sena. Reject• ing the age of 8, the period of B11larishta. or early death (b), the main fault in this Pindayurdaya. is that in uo 011.se iii givea us years less than 20 (c). lfot.es. (a). Vislmugupta is otherwise known as Channkya. (b). To whioh none of the .Ayurda.ya rules apply. ( c). The Oommen tat.or con11iders that this stanza is not lho author's; t.ho objection to Pindn.yu1·duyn raised in it ho meets as follows by proving tlint Pbdayurdayn. doe, give years below 20. He takes the following horo:,cope. The first N:\vamsn of Aquarius ia lhe Lagnu. 'J'he Sun, the M.oon and Venus occupy their eultation dcg•GC8,;Mercury, Jupiter• Digitized by Google BBIBAT JATAEA• [on. 7. and Saturn occapy their depression degrees, and Mars occu.pies the 28th degree of sign .Aquarius. Vonns •• ¥1:rt!11i-y.  Sun. Saturn.  Moon.  I  Mars. L1.1gua.  Rasi  Chukm,  Jupi>e•· 1  Now as the Sun, the Moon anc! Venus are in their eKa.1.tation degrees, their years are respectively 19, 25 and 21; and as Mercury, J npiter and Saturn occupy their depression degrees, their years a1·e one-half of their maximum years, • thnt is one-ha.If of 12, 15 and 20 or 6, 7.and 10 respectively. Now the 28th degree of Capricorn is the exaltation degree of Mars, -and as he occupies the· 28th degree ,Qf .Aquarius, he i's removed from the exaltation deg1·ee by exactly 80 degrees. His mBximum number of yea.1·s· when in the 28th degree of C11pricom being 15; 30 degrees or a sign gives us Hor yenr nnd 8 months. Subtracth1g this from 15 years we get l!J yea.rs and 9 months as tho yen.1-sof Mars. As sign Aqnnrius was just rising Legna gives us 110 years; so lhut at thh1 stage the planetary years stand as follows : TJ1e Sun 19 years. IMercnry 6 years. The Moon 25 ,. Jupiter . 7 yeal'S G ms. Venus 21 ,, Saturn 10 ,, nnd Mars 1~ years 9 months. N owas Jupiter, n-benefic planet occupies the 12th house from tha rising sign, lits years s ifo1·a red11ction of one-half of their leugth ; so that, afte1· Digitized by Google Cir, 'I.] 1J&tJtAT11TU:A. 01 the reduction, he gives us only 8 years and 9 months . .Again, as all the planets (lCenpy friendly signs, no Sntl'll.Kshetraharana need be made. Saturn being within JO degrees from thl Sun is an Astangat& planet and therefore his years suffer 'ured11 ion of one half. So that sf• 1'lte. Neketiea-he gives us ~years. Thus we have the follow• iug. The Sun The Moon Venus  19 years, 20 .. . 2[ .. .  IMercury Jnpiter Saturn It)  6 years. 3 ye. 9 ms. &yea1·s,  Mars 18 years 9 months.  '.J.'otal 9r'7ears  6 months.  :NowM Mars, a malefic pl1&net, occupies the rising sign, the tot.al number of 9e'yeara and 6 months have to be snb.jectod to a i-ednction known ae Kl'urodaya harana. In other words the 108 Navnmsas of the ecliptic tepresent the. tot.al number of years. Now there are 10 X 9 = 00 Na. vamsas between the first point of Aries and tho first p~int of .Aqnaris. The quautity of reduction therefore is 1~, x or years and 6 months, Therefore the years remaining after the reduction = Nr X 98'years and 6 mouths = 16'° years and ~onths, the length of life required. '!'his of course is less than 20 years. . 8. To the \'ery yoga to which the maximum length of Jife has been assigned, cel'tain &i\trologe1·i, (a) hnvo ascribed tho life of a king. 'l'he1·e is a.n evident or1·or in tb,e. Another ert·or is that persons (born nuder the yoga of a sovereign) are often fouud to live long and poor. Notf's. (a.) juch as Badal'ayana. and Yavaneswara. The objection amounts to thid : 'l'ho.t the very yoga which, according to Pindayurdayn. is said to give a person the maximum length of-lite is conai-Digitized by Google BRJB.lT UT.uu. [tH. 7. dered by certain astrologers as Raja Yoga. In either case several planets cccupy their enltation signs (vida stauzo. I, Chapter X[.) Tho Commentator considers this st,mza. too, not as the author's, the objection raised being an absurd one. For, it is wrong to suppose that a }l&1·tioular yoga cannot be both a yoga for long life and one for the 1ife of a sove1·eign. 'l'he other objection raised in the text ia evidently a frivolous one and ought to be proved before it can be met. 9. According \o Joevnsnrma ti1c maximum uumbe1· of years for each planet when in hie exaltation sign and degree h oue-seveutb of the maximum length of human life-120 years aud 5 da.ys,-whioh is 117 years, 1 month, 22 days, and W\ghatikae. (a) In this view Jeevaea.1·ma stands alone and is not supported by other authorities. According to Satya.. ohu.rya, t.he pl1LDetary yeurs are the same as the number of Navamsaa passed over by each planet(b), Thie view baa the suppol't of many authorities. Notes, (a.) Just ns in Pindayurdaya, the several reductions are to l,o made aud then the 1·esulting length of life ascertained. (/,). Counting from the Navamsa of Aries immediately prt:cediug ; so t.hat no planet can give mQre than 12 years. IO. Aoco1·diog to Sallyacbarya, convtu·t the Sphuta or Jongitudo of the plauot into minutes; divide th~ numbOL' of u1i1111to:1 the 11umbo1· of by mo ; tho quotient will rop1-011ont Nuvo.1111m:1pm1sed ovol' Ly tho plo.net from the th-st point of Aries. Divide this by 12, the remainder will give the »umbe1· of Navnmsns from t.he Navamsa of Ades the number is nldo the  number  of  years  and  £motion of  a  year  for  the planet.  Notes.  Suppose \be longitude of the Sun to be 116 degrees l& Digitized by Google • DlllHAT JAT,\ICA. I . . minutes. This converted int.o minutes gives 6,918 minutes, Now as a Navamsa cont.aioa 200 miontes the num ber of Navamaaa p_assed over by the Rttn from the first point of Aries = r:.;.,;.;= 84-~ Dividin1t this . by 12, we get as remaioder IOin-NAvamBAS from tlte next preceding Navamsa or Aries. This then represents the years nf Uu, Snn which w.ill be found to bo 10 yaal'!'I. 6 montts 23 days and 24 ghatikns ; and so on for each planet. 11. Again, ir any planet occupies its exaltation sign or is retrogl'ftde in its motion, the years Msij!'ned to it, shall be trebled; and if the planet be in its Var.goUama or Nava.ms,. or Swaksl1etra or Dnekkana, its yt>ars shall be doubled, The abov& is a special feat,ure in Saty~baryar's 4ynrdaya. In otherrespects, it re.,embles the Pin~ay~aya-the several 1;edao~ions(a) already refer.red to apply to the present case. Notes; (a). The reduction known M Krorodaya hA.rana cloesnot apply to Satyaobaryar's method. (Vida stanza 12), 12. According toSatyacharya the years, months, &w. for the Lagoa, the rising degree,are the same Al the number of Navamsaa p"88ed over (a) (as in the case of the planets); but if the rising aign be powerFal(b), flhen, the number of signs passed.over represents f;be years, monthit, &o.. The reduction known as Krnrodayaharana does not apply to Satyaoharyar's method. In the oase of the other redactions the years giy~n in the first st~nza ongbt no~ to be employ• ed(c). Notes. (a). Beginning from the next preoediog Navamsa or Aries. Digitized by Google ..J 70 DRIHAT JATAIU. (ca. '/, (b). As siated in. a~anza 19, OhI. (c). TbrLt is tl1e special years of each planet acc<?rdiog to Satyncharya's method ought to be subjected to the several reductions. 18. Io the matter or Ayurdaya, the method or S1,tya.Oharya is the best. Objection is made to it on the ground that t~ planateryyearshave to be multiplied several times(a) This is wrong; where any pe1·iod has to be multiploJ. by several numbers, it will be sufficient if the pedod is multiplied by the largest number(b). Notes. (a). Suppose ?ifercury to occupy sign Virgo which is his exaltation sign aR well as his house. It would seem that under stanza 11, Mercury's years should first be trebled and then doubled. Is this to be done ? Again, suppose Mercury to occupy the last Navamsa. ofsign Virgo which is his Vargotama position. His years, it would. appear, have to be doubled on that account.Already we found that for being in his house, his years had to be doubled. The question is whether tho years of Mercury have ,o be doubled twice. Again, suppose Mercury while occupying Virgo, his exaUatioo sign, is also retrograde in his motion for which his years have to be trebled. Are bis years then to be trebled twice. No. (b ). l'f nny period has to be doubled twioe or thrice, ;t will be enough if it be doubled bot once, and where the period has to be trebled twioa or thrice, it will ho enough if it be trebled but once, Again, if any period has to be both doubled and trebled, it will be enough if it be only trebled 14-, The lire of a person born when sign Cancer is ris.iog, when Jupiter and the Moon occupy such rising sign, when Mercury and Venus o,:,cupy the Kendrau and tho other Digitized by Google OH, 7.) DBIBAT UTA.KA, 71 pl,mets occupy the llth,6th and 8rd bouaea ia not subject to ordinR.ry calculation, but far exceeds the maximum period of normal human existence(o), Noles. (a). Io otbel' words, the ordinary .}ynrday11,rules for ascertaining the Jength of a man's life do not apply to the horoscope mentioned in the text. For further pArticulars vide Chapter IX. Notes, Notes :-It may be intel'estiog to quote here a few horos.copes of the nature of the one referred to in the la.st stanza to which the ordinary Ayurdaya rules do not apply. .TheRe are mainly the horoscopes of eminent sages who are suppos.ed to live for several centories. (1). The 1·ising sign is Leo and Jupiter occupies it, Venus occupies Cancer, :Mercury the 2od house Virgo, and the malefic planets oconpy the U pachaya· places, viz., the 3rd, 6th, 10th, and 11th houses. .A person bom in the above yoga will live for 1,000 yea1·s. (2). The Sun and Mars occupy the 4th house from the ascendant ; Saturn occopies the rising sign, Rnhu the 12th house and the other planets the 8th house. A person born in the above Y :>gu. will live for 2,000 years. -(8). The rising sign is ArieR, and the Son occupies it. Saturn occupies the 4th or the 9th house. Mars the 7th house, nnd powerful Moon the 12th house. A person bom in the above yoga will live for 2,000 yeara hy the powel' of d1·ugs. (4,). The rising sign is SagiUati or Pisces, and Jupi-. ter occupies it; sign Gemini is unoccupied nnd Venus occu.pies one of the Kendra houses. A person born in the above yoga will live for a great number of years by the power of dl'ngs and will attain the po11ition of Indra. 10 Digitized by Google j BRIB.lT JAT.llU, [oe. '.', . (5), If all the pl11.neta ooeapy either" single aign 011 the 'l'rikoila or tbe Kendta bouses, a perion born in the yoga will either die immediately after birth Ol' live for a yug" by the power of tf&antra,, 6. If :m,aleficplanet.a do not occupy the Trikona laousea, • benefic planets do not occupy the Kenda-a houses, and if the 8th bout1e be not occupied by a malefic planet, a pe1'8on born in the yo8" will become a Deva. 7. 'l'he rising sign is T1Lurus and Venus occupies it. Jupiter occupies one of the Kendra houses ,md the othel' planets occupy the 8rd, 6th and 11th houses. A pe1·son. born under the yoga will become a l)eva. nfter Jiving for a great number of yenn by the power of drugs and mantms. • 8, The rising sign is Cancer; Batu1·n occnpics sign Libra; Jupiter ocoupies Capricorn; and tho :Uoon occupies 1.'auras. A person born under-the yogn. attains tbe position or Brahma afte11 Jiving a great ma1;11yea:rs by the st,·eogth of d11ogs and man.tras, 9. The rising sign is Cancel' and Cancer is also the rising Nava.msa; Jupiter ocoupiea one of the Kendra houses;, :Mars the 7th house; and Venus is in Simhasanamsa(a) • .Aperson born in the above yoga will live long by the power of drugs. 10, The riaing Navam.sa is tbe last NavamslL of aign Virgo and Mercury _occo:piesit; Jupiter occupies the 7th house and is in • Gopqramsa or Saturn is in Alridvamsa, A, person born under the above yogt' will live for an infi~ . .nite nnmher of yea1's, l 1, V~11u.sis in Devalokamsa; Ma?S in one of the . Kendra houses and Jupitel' is also in one of the Kendra houses and is in Simhasanamsa. A person born in the above yoga will livo for a countless number of years. (a). • For a~ explanation or these Amsa• or plane~1·1 roa\tlo11s, vide the uoto at \he end, Digitized by Google .lilltBA'i' JATAKA, 78 12. Venus ocdupies one of the Kendra bouees anci is in Va1·gofitama position and in Psmvatamaa; Jupiter occu.pies one of the Kendra hottaeB and is in Bwafgalokamsa, A person born in the above yoga will live for a ~ountle11 number of yeRrs by the power of drugs. 18. Jupiter occupies one of the Kendra houses, and is in Gopuratnsa ; Venus oooupies one of the Trikona houses and ia in Paravatamsa and the rising sign is Oanoe1·; a person born in tho above yoga will live for a yt>ga. U. The riitiog sign is Cander and Jupiter occupies it llnd is in the Navamsa of B11gittari and 2 or 8 planets occupy the Kendras. A person born in the above yoga will live long and attain the position of Brahma. 15. Venus occupies fihe Srd or 1 Ith house and is in Gopuraor other Amsa.s; and therising Navamsa is Taurus of sign Taunts, A petson bom io. the above yoga will live long and attain the position of Brahma. Ht Vonus otdnpies the rising sign; jupiter the 7th house; the Mooni • sign Virgo, and the rising ·Navamsa is Aries of sign Sagittari. A peNou born in the above yoga will obtain salvation,· 17. Mercury occupies the 5th house and is in Gopura. or other sm.sas; the rising sign is Aquarius and Jupiter Odt'tipies ifi. A person born in the above yoga will afitain the position of Brahma, JS. Jupiter oooupies one of the Kendra houses. Saturn t>ooupies the ilt.b house. The Sun occupies fibe 2nd house . GuJika (the higher apsis of a planet;s oou1'8e) occupies the 7'h house and Ma.rs oocupies the 9th house, A pe1'8ou borll in the abo.ve yoga will live for a yuga ... 19; Jupiter and Mercury art1 in the Trikona houses J Digitized by Google BBIBAT JATAKA, [011. 7 the l'iliing sign is Taurua and Ma1'S oooupies it and the .Moon is-in Gopnramsa. A person bo1·n in the above yoga will live for 2,000 yeal'S. 20, Jupiter occupies one of the Kend,·a houses; the 1·ising sign is Ounoer, Mars oooupies the 7th house and Saturn the 4th house ; the time of bil'th is the light l,alf of the month. If the bh·th of a per{!on occu1·a in the above yoga. and by da.y he will live for 10,000 yen rs. 21. Jupiter, Saturn, Mars and Venus oooupy the Ken.drns and a.re mutna.lly in Kendra positions to one another, or they all ocoupy the Trikono. houses. A person born in either of the above yogas will live for 10,000 years. 22. Beoefic planets ocoupy the Kendras ; Malefic pla..nets occupy the Srd, 6th, and 11th hooses; the rising sign is Leo and Jupiter oooupies it. A pel'son bol'I1 in the above yogo. will live for 60,00Uyears. . 28. The rising sign js Capricorn and planets from Mars to the Sun occupy it excepting Jupiter who occupies the Brd house. A person born in the above yoga will live for a ·Kalpa. 24, The last Navamsa of sign Aries is the rising Na.vamsa a.nd Jupiter or Venus occupies it; the Moon occu.pies the 5th Navamsa of Taurus or Sagittari 01· Mars is in Simhasannmso.. A person born in the above yoga will live for a countless number of years. 25. The Suu and Mercury occupy fixed signs; the Moon oooupies sir,rn Taurus, and Venus sign Geiniui; the rising sign is O11.nce1· and Jupite1• ·oooupies it, 01• the risiog sign ill Libra and Saturn ocoopies it, A person born in the above yoga. will beoome a Muni or a. Rishi. 2S. • The Moon is in Devalokamsa ; Ya1·s is in Pa.ravat• amsa ; the Sun is in the rising sign and in Simhasanamsa. A person born in the above yoga will become a Muni or a Rishi. Digitized by Google ·011. 7] . BBIB4T JATAIU .• 7S 27. The Snn oocupioa sign Aries; Jupiter eii.her the 9th house or sign Canoer ana the ma.lelio plant'ts oconpy the 3rd, 6th, and 11th houses: A person born in the above yoga will_beoome a Muni . .dmaa, et1:plained. In Chapter I we h11ve referred to the six modes of di• 'Vision of the Eoliptio known as 8hadt1arga. Cel't.ain writers have foor more divi,sioos known as 8aptamaf1ua, Daaamaa; 8hoda,am,a,and Sha,htyaf1Ua. These ten divisions of the ecliptic are known as Da,at1arga,. 8aptamam90, is divil'ion of a sign of the Zodiac into 7 equal pa.rte. The lords of the 7 parts of the odd signs are reepeotively the lords of the 7 signs of the Zodia.o commen• oiog from the odd sign ; and the lords of the 7 parts of the even signs are respectively the lords of the 7 signs of the Zodiac beginning from the 7th sign from the even sign. Dasamsa is division of a sign of the Zoditic itito • 10 equal parts. The lords of the l O parts of the odd signs are respectively the lord!! of the 10 signs of the Zodiao oom.mencing from the odd sign, and the lords of the 10 parts of the even signs are respectively the lords of the 10 signs commenoing from the I0th sign from the even sign. • ShodasamsB is divi9ion_ of a sign of U1R ccliptio inlo 10 equal pa.rte. The lords of the 10 parts of the odd signs are the lords of the 12 sign,s commercing from the odd sign together with Bral1ma, Vishnu, Rudra and Surya; the Jorda of the 16 parts of the even signs are the lords of the l2 signs commo1;1cing from the oven signs together with Bnryo, Rudra, Vishnu and Drn.hmn. Bhashtyamsa is division of a sign of the ecliptic into 60 equal pa.rte. The 60 parts of the odd sign11are thoso of Digitized by Google 76 BBlBAT .JATAltA• [OB, 8 l. Ghota. 21. Padma. 41. Ka?inasa. 2. R11kshnsl\. 22. Lakshmi. 42. Mukhya. 8, Deva, 28. Vageesa., 43. V 11mso.kshaya, 4. Kubo1·n.. 24-. nigambam. 44.•Utpataka, 5. U1~k11hogana.25. Dava, 45. K,,la-ropa; 6. Kinnare.. 26. Ardra. 46. Soumya. 7, Bhrashta. 27. Kalinasa. 47. :M:a·idu. S. Kulaghna. 28. Ksbitiswa1·a. 48. Sositala. 9. Garala. 29. Kamalakara. 49. Damsbtrakarala. 10. Agni. 30, Mandatmaja. 60. Iodumukha. 11. Maya. 81 . .Mrityu, 61. Pravina. ]:!. Pretapureesa.32. Kala. 62. Kalagni. 18. .Apampati. 33. Davagni. ~~-Dlllldayudlia., 14. Devaganesa. 34, Ohora, f,4. Nirmala, ln, Kula, 85. Amaya. . 55. Sobba, 16. Abi. l!O. Kantaka, 56. Asubha. }7. Amritamsa, 87, Sudha, 57. Atisitala. 18 .. Chandra. 88. Aml'ita, 58. Sudha. .19 Mridu, 89, _Poomachandra. 59. Payodhibhramana, 20. Komala. 40. Vishapradigdha. 60. Indurokha. And the 60 parts of the even sigos are the above in the inverse order, that is, beginning from lndurekha. and endiog in Ghora. • . Now a planet which occupies his pnrticulat house, Na-1-amsa, Dwadasamsa, Tl'imsamsa, &c., is said to be in his Varga. A planet occupying two Vargas is said to be in Parijatamsa. J if he occupies th1·ee Vargas, he is said to be in Uttamamsa; if font vargas, in Gopuramsa; if five vargas in Siml1&namsa; if six, iu Paravatarosa; if seven or eight, in Devalokarnsa ; if nine, in Airavatamf a; and if ten, in Yniseshikamsa. Digitized by Google CR; 8] '17 CHAPTER VIII. OH PUNITARY D1v1stON8 AND Sua-D1vJB10N8 or LtH KNOWN As DA11As'AND ANTA&DASAA, 1. Determine fir~t wbioh of the following three is powerful-the Rising Sign, the Sun and the Moon. His pe.riod comes first. Then follow the periods of thn. planetA occupying the Kendra houses, fa·om suoh powerful rising sign or tho Sun or the :Ml)on, Then come tlae pel'iods of the planets occupying the Pe.naphara houses from. the same, and lastly come the pel"iods q.f planets occnpying the Apok.lima houses(t.i), H there be no planets in the Kendra or P,maphara or .A.poklima houe811, then the periods of the other planets ()()me in the order stated. Notes. {t.i). The order in which come lb~ periods of the eciveral planets occupying the l{endra or the Pannphara or the ·Apoklioa houses is given in the following stanza. j. The lengths of the severl\l planetary periods known as dl\8as are the same as those of tpe planets 11s found iu the l1t.11tchapter. .A.gain, of the several planets oooopying the Kendra ot Panaphara or Apoklina houses, the dasl\ period of the most powerful planet comes first, then come11 that of the planet next in power and so on ; but if tl1e planets be of equal power, the dasa period of the planet whose period i, the longest oomes first.; and if the planets be of equal power and period, then the period of the pl"net w hioh rises first(t.i) comes first. Notes. (t.i•) That is, reappears after it.a conjunotion with t.be Sun R.Ccording to Oommentator. 'l'aking atAnznsI n.nd 2 together, we find that the clua period of either Lngna or the Sun or the Moon, whichever is powerful, oomes fit-et, Then oome the periods of the planet.a occupying the Kendr'-house• in the order stated. Then the periods of the planets occupy.il\g the Pana.pbara houses in the same otdo1·, aiud lasts Digitized by Google 78 BRIHAT JATAKA, [e11. 8 tbos~ of the pl1\nets o/cupyiog tl1e Apoklina. houses in the same ordet•, 8. The period of the Antarda.sa(a) (sub-division or.planetary period) o{ the plnnoVb) occ11pying the same house ns tho lol'J of the <lu.sn. period, is one-ha.U of the antarda.sl\ • period of such lord. The antarclas8 period of the planet occt1pying the 5th, or the 9th house from the lord of the dasl\ period, is one-third,that of the planet occupying· the 7th honse from the lo1·d is one-seventh, and that of the planet occupying the 4th or the 8th house from the lord is one-fourth of the antardasa pel'iod of the lord. 'l'he aotardaH periods of the Lugnn-dasu. shall be determined in the same way, Notes, (a). Planet,u·y divi11ious of life are known as daso. periods and planeta1·y sub-divisions of life al'e known as th& antardasa periods. ~-(b.) 'J'he antardasa periods of a parMcular dai,a period of a planet come in the order stated in the text, namely first comes the 11.ntarda.sa period of the planet itself, then that of the plu.net occupying the snmo house as the lo1·d of the du1rn pol'iod, tbeu. th"t of' Lhe planet occupying the 5th or 9th hooiu, from tho l01·d, then that of the planet ocoupyiog the 7th house from tho lol'd, aud l11sLlythat of the planet; occupying the 4th or the 8th house from such lo1·d. U several planets occupy tho s11me house as the lord of the dnsa po1fou, U10 lord of the antardasn. is the most powerful of them. Similal'ly, if several planets occnpy the 5th and the 9th houses or the 7~h house or the 4th and 8th houses from the sign occupied by the lord of the dasa, the lord of the autardasa in each of the three oases is the most powerful planet; so that the sevei•al antardnsa pel'iods are in the propotLio11 of I q. :.~tl (vido stunzn. 4.) If there b& Digitized by Google OB .k] :nDrAT JATAIU• 79 no plaoeis in any of these pleoei, the an~ardaaaperiods of the other planets alone should be taken; • 4,, The fractions(ci) should all be made to hav~ a common denominator with different . numerators. The dasa period should be divided by the sum or the numera· tors and the quotient . when multiplied by the • several numerators will give the periods or the several anlar.daaaa. Notes. (a). That is t, l, t, l and l• , Suppose for instance there are planets in the several places referred to in the ·1aat stanza excepting say, the 7th house from the sign, occupied b1 th~ lord of the dasa.. , T~e periods of the four antardaaas-those of· {I) the Jord or the dasa ; (2) the planet with it : (8) the planet occupying the 5th or the 9th ho118e from ib and (4) the planet ooonpying the 4th or tho 8th house from it-are in the proportion of? : 1 : j : J. Reducing these to fractions with a oommon denominator, we get !I: 1t, 1land :f.; in other words the a.otardasa periods are in . the propori1'tn of 12 : 6 : 4t: 3. The sum of these numbers is 25; if therefore 1;be dasa period be divided by 25 and the. quotient multi.plied by 12, 6, 4,ands, w~ sbal~ _o~~in -~h~. ~ri9ds oft_he •foul' antardasaa; • . . . .G. The dasa period(a) of_ the most powerful planet 0 oupying the exaltation degree of its exaltation sign is known as Bampoorna.(b) The daaa period of a. weak planet occupy.ing the depression degree of ii& depression sign is known as Bikta(o). The dasa period of a planet oooupyng an inimical Navamsa and also the depression degree of its depreaaioneign is knowns .dni,~a. Notes. , (ci). As well as the antardaSB period in , this a~d in th• ne:xh two oa,e~ mentionei in tbe te,+ · .•. .' . • • •• 11 Digitized by Google BBlHAT 1ATAKA. [en. 8 (b). The dasa.period of a planet occuupying simply its exaltation sign and not very powerful is known aa P-urna. (c,) The dasa period of a weak planet occupying simply its depression sign is also known as Bikta (a,) 6. The daaa.:period of a,planet which quitting the ex.altation degree moves to\vards the depression sign is known as A11a1·ohini; while so moving, if the planet occupy a friendly or an exaltation .Navamsa (b) his dasa period is knowu as Madhyama. A.gain th~ da.sa pe1·iod of a planet which quitting the depression degl'ee movos towards its -exaltation sign is known as .tf1"ohini; while.so moving, if the planet occupy an imimical or a depression Navamsa, his dasa period is known _aa ..4dham<J. (a). As well as the antardasa period accol'di.rig to tho Commentator. ,b). Or his own Navamsa. according to the Oomm:enta.tdr. Exaltation Na.vams1is one which bears the name of the exaltation sign. 7. _Theds.sa pericd(a) _ofa planet which occupies a depression or an inimical Navamsa, when in a good posi.tion(b) is known as Miaraphakf(o).-The several n~mes of the dasas indicate by their meaning the nature of the dasa periods(d). We shall describe (in the course of this chap.ter)(a) the effects of ,he &everal planetry dasas . . Notes. (a). As well as £he antardasa period according to Oommentator. : (1,.) That is, wheu the planet oc~upies his own honse, a friendly house or his Moolatl'ikona. or exaltation • house Digitized by Google OS, 8.] BBJW.T·. JATJ.J:£, 81. (o). Similarly the ~!¥la period of a plane~ which occu.pies an inimical or depression sign, and is in. _bis own Na vamasa, ·in a friendly Nav~m~ or a Moolat.rikona or exalta tion Navamsa~ or if he oooop~esa Vargot.a~a place; is also known as Misraph~a. • . . (d). B. g. 'l.'he • name Sampurna indice.tes vast pros.perity. Poorna indicates_ proa~rit.y. Adham&in(ifoatea misery or destruction and very little prosperity. Rikta indicates misery and poverty. 4nd Misrapbala·in4icatea ~ mixture of both good and evil. • (e). From stanza 12 of this chapter. 8. According as the rising. Drekkana i~ the first, se.cond or third, the Lagna d(lla is. known l!,8 Adhama, Mad.hyama or Utbma if the rising sign be. &common sign ; btta.ma, Madbyama or Aahami. if the· 'rising • sign be a movable aign; and Adhama, Uttam.a or :Mi.dhjama if the rising sign be a fixed sign. • • ' • • Notes. . In other words, .ii-~Jie rising aign _be ~D.e oJ the common 1igns, Gemfoi, Virgo,. Sagittw a.ncl :P~, the Lagoa daaa is known as Adhama, if the risiug: Dre1'kan., be the 1st, :Madhyauµdf it be.the 2nd, ancl Uttama or ;Poojita if' U be the 3rd. • ,Again,· if the iisipg sign be one· of the movable sjgne,'Ar~es,·o~cer, Libr~,.~1'~· Papri~.~rn; ,the µagua. dasa is kno1,91J .a.aUtta~J -if the ritliµg Drekkana )>e the 1st, }Jad.hyama if it be the !nd, andAdha~aifit be~he·srd. Laetiy, if the rising sign be· one of the fixed signs, Taurus, °Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius, the Lagna dasa. is known as Adhama or A.811bhaif the rising Drekkana be the first, Uttama. or Ishta if it be the 2nd, and M"dhyam~ or Sama if it be the 8rd. These names indicate, as already stated, the nature of the da~ period,·· B. g. A.dhama indicates· mjse1·y, Ma,dhy• ama~ mixture of both good and evil, and Uttama in~oates dr.osperit.y. •••> • • • ; • '· ·: • : •• • • ' • Digitized by Google IBDllT UTJ.U. [o.. 8• 9. The N~aargika {Mfffll) daaaa in the oaae of all• creatures are those or the Moon, Mara, Meroory, Venus, Jopiter, the Sun and ~he Saturn in the order stated, and their periods are respectively1, 2, 9, 20,.18, 20 & 50 years(a). I£ the Naisargika_ daaa period and the ordinary pla.netary dasa period happen to run together, auch period (bp will be~ prospe~oua one. According to Yavaneswara, the closing perio~(c) ia the Naisargika Lagna daaa and pro.duces prosperity. Thia ia objected to by some. Notes. (a). Io all 120 years .. (~): A_ similarrem~k applies to theAntardaaa periods ( c)~ The period o(life after 120 years. 1o. If the lord ~f the daaa period or one of his ftiend.ly planets ocoopy the Lagna(a), or if the Lagna belong to the Varga (division)(b) of the lord of the daal' period, or if a benefio planet ocoopy the Lagoa, or if the lord of the dasa period occupy the 3rd, 6th, 10th or 11th house C1·om the Lagna, snob daaa period(o) will be a prosperona one (a)• Again, if the Moon that ooc~piei (e) a sign friendly (/) 'to the lord of the daaa(g) or the exaltation sign of the lord of the daaa or the Srd, 6th, 10th, 11th, 6th, 9th or the ·7th house (h) from the sign occupied by the lord of the dasa ·pe1iod, she will bring on prosperity; otherwise(,), she will produce misery. .Not.ea.. (q). Lagna : Thia is interpreted to mean the rising : sign at the moment of the commencement of the daaa . period; so that the hour of oomme11,cement of a d~ period ' mast first be uoertained and a figure of the heavena drawn up for. the hoar. Digitized by Google CH. 8) DIWLlTJATUA,"· 83 (b). Varga: If, f orinstanoe, theLagoa be the sign, Hora, Drekana, Navamsa, Dwadasamsa or Trimsamsa of the• _lord or dasa period.· (o). Or Antardasa period according ·to Commentator. (d). If either the fl-iendly planet or the benefic planet oooopying the Lagna be an .A.timitra planet tothe lord of the:daaa period, such period will be a very prosperone 0110; if auoh benefio planet be an AtisatruJplanet, the peiiod wi~l not be a prospe1·ous one; but if the planet be a neutral on~, just; the eff'eots of the dasa period will occur. (e). According to the-Oommentator, the Moon causes prosperity while it passes through• the several places men.tioned in the text. These plaoes are with reference to the signs occupied by • the lords of the dasa and _antardasa pe riods in the course of their motions in the ecliptic. •(/)• Friendly for the time being. (g). Or antardasas according to Commentator •. (h). Vide ~ote (e). (,). That is when the Moon passes through the other p~a. . ·:. . . . . . . . . Jt. If, at the time of commencement or the dasa pe.:riod or a planet, the Moon oocupy sign Cancer, the native ,wUI become riob, live in • oomfod and become a man of note ; if, at the time, the Moon occupy aign Aries or sign Scorpio, his~ wife will become unchaste; if the Moon ocou• . py either aign G~mini or eign ,Virgo, the person will be.'oome more learned,· get more friends and become rich; if •the Moon o~upy sign Leo, the person will liye in dense and impenetrable. forests; if the Moon :·oocupy sign Taurus or sign Libra, be will eat sumptuoua meals ; if she oooupy ·sign· Caprioorli or sign Aquarius, he will get a bad woman, • and. if the Moon oooupy sign Sagittari or sign Pisces,· the p ersonwill become rioh, happy _and respected. • Digitized by Google DllllUT J.lTAl:A• [on. a. 12, In the benefic(a) dasa period(b) of the Siin, a person will acquire wealth by dealing in perfumes, nailq, tasks of elephants and the like animals,. in tiger akin and the like, in gold, by means of roads, by the king and by battle. He will become cruel, courageo11S, persevering, renowned and valorous. In the malefic dasa period of the Sun, he will get into trouble through his wife, son, money, enemy, weapons, fire or the king., and he will become liberal in gifts and addicted to sinfnl deeda; he will quanel with his s,rvants and will become afflicted in mind ~nd sqff'er from chest pain and the like diseases, Notes. (a).· The technical ~es, such ,-a Samporna., Adham!:', kc., "given to the planets indicate the )>enefioor tbe iµalefio character of their dasa period, vide note(d) to stanza. '7. If the dasa period be both benefio and malefic, the na.ture of the events will be both good and bad. • ... ·_ (b).: Or:aq~d!l,Sa period according to Commentator. 13. In. the benefio da.sa period of the Moon, the per.eon will derive benefits hy dealing in or by means of th, tnantras,the Brahmins, the productions ofsugar-cane, millc, gl1ee.,!and the like, cloth, flower, play, sesa.µu1m seed, and foocl; he will resp'eot virtuous Bra.hinins ·and the Devas ; he will get daughters _and will acquire an increase of wisdom, wealth and 1-enown, . , , ; In_ the mal~fio_dasaptn•iod of the Moon, the _p~raon will. i~dnlgo in sleep and idl~ness, will lose . his wisdom, wealth. a.nd renown and will qu~r~el with powerful men an~ . with kinsmen. . . .. 14. In the benefic da,a period of Mars the person will , fight with his enemies,, will ~quire wealth through hia brother, the king, lands, wopllen goods 1nd goats. Digitized by Google os.8] BRIBAT 11Til&. 85 In the mnleflo dasa p_eriod of Mars, the person will hate his sons, friends, wife, brothen, learne.d men and pre.ceptors ; he will suffer from disea~eacaused by or conneot., ed with thirst, blood, fever, bile, lou of. limbs or sexual in• terconrae with other -women. iie wili asaocinte with men doing wicked deeds ; he will become vicious, • ha.rah io speech and cruel. 15. In the bene&c dasa period of Mercury the person will acquire wealth by doing acts of message and through friends, preceptors and Brabmins. He will attaio renown among learned men. Re will become famous and ,till get brass and the like mixed metals, gold, borus, lands, popu.larity, comfort and ease, He will ridicule others and will serve under other men. He will get an increase of wisdom and auc~ully do deeds of virtue. In the malefic dasa period 'of Mercury the person will become harsh in his speech and will suffer from grie_f, hn prisonment, pain of' mind and diseases arising from an affec• tion of the three dbatoa-vata (the a:r), pittrs(bile), and 1le,hmrs(phlegm.) • 16. In the bene&o dasa period of Jupiter, • the person will acquire wealth by acts of worship, by his learning, valor, ingenuity, bright personal appearance, military fame, man.tras, the king and the Vedas, He will have an increase of gold, horses, precious stones and elephants and will acquh-e the friendship of good kings. Io the maie6.c dasa period or Jupiter, the person will learn things requiring much ingenuity, will suffer from foo,f; journey·and pain in the ear and 'Will quarrel with wicked men. 17. In the benefic dau. period of Venus, the person will enjoy sweet inuiio,·variou pleasures, perfumes, su~p.tuous meals, aloohoJ,fine • cloths, women, • and· precious Digitized by Google .L1 86 BBIHA'l' J'ATJ.JU, [OK,_8. stones. He w·m ho of fine appearance, valorous, and will enjoy every subsiance, p1'0vokiog . sexual passion, will be..come learned in the Bastras, will obtain the object· of his desire, will acquire friends, will become skilled in trade and in agriculbure, and will get hidden tl'easures and wealth. In the malefic dasa period of Venus, the person will quarrel with crowds of people, with the king, hunters and . wicked men and he will eutJe1· much from his own friends. 18. In the benefic dasa. period of Saturn the person will get asses, camels, birds, buffaloes and old women, will rule over hamlets, villages or towns, and will thereby become renowned and will get ~a.in of inferior quality. In the malefic da!!& period of Saturn the person will suffer from phlegmatic and windy complaints ; will be jealous, angry, distracted in mind, dirty, exposed to da.nger, idle, suffer from grief, and be much troubled. His servants., sons, daughters and wife will exercise authority over him and he will suffer from defective organs. •19. If the dasa period be a benefic one, the effects will be good ; if it be a malefic one, the effects will be bad, If it be of a mixed nature, the effects will be both good a.nd bad ; the eft'ects fo1· the Lagoa daso. are the same as the effects for the daaa period of the lord of the rising sign. Notes . .A.a stated already, tho character, whether benefio or malefic of o. dasa period i11to be determined from the ~eoh:.~ical names given to the lord of the period. Vide stanzas 6 and 7. Again, if, at the time of birth, any of the planets • occupy the Upaohayo. houses, be of b1·ight disos anll of· dist.inct motion,. the effects will be good in their dasa pe.riods. But if the planets s1:1ffer de~eat i~.conjunction, be Digitized by Google ... Cu. 8] BBIHA.T JA.TJ.lt'A, b7 0£ disogreenble appearance or of slllall discs, the effects will be bad in their dasa periods. The planets, which, at the time of oommenoement of their antardosa periods, might be aapected by benefi.c planet.a or occupy the Vargas (divi.sions) of behefi.o or atimitrn. (v<>ry friendly) planets are power• ful and will not causo death; if they be situated othe1·wise they will cause death. 20. In the bonefic daaa periods of the planets a pe1·son will acquire the several metals assigned to the planets (vide Chaptar II. 12) and in the mnlefio dnsa pe1iods of the planets he will lose them. .Again, in the antardn@a period of a planet a person's oconpalion will be tl1at mentioned for the planet (vide Chapter X.) Tbe effects described for the 12 houses from the ascendn.nt, for the 12 signs from Ari<>s,·for planetary aspects and for all yogas excepting Nabhasa yogas (Cb: 12) will occur in the dua period of the planet whiob is most powerful among the yoga planets. 21. In the dasa period of a parUcular planet, the person's complexion will be tha~ due to the elementary principle presided over by the planet aud the complexion will be accompanied by certain o~her qualities due to the same elementary principles and discernible by their res.pective organs of sense. Notes. Physical man is a composition of the·. five elementary •'prinoiples-eartb, water, fire., air and 11kas (ether): Mercury presides over earth ; V anus and the Moon over watt-r; Mars and the Sun over fire; Saturn over ail'; and Jopihtn• over Akas. In the dasll period of a particular planet, his elementary principle will predominate and the complexion of the person during such period• will be that. due to the 12 • Digitized by Google BRIJUT JUAB:A, [ca. 8 particular element.e.1-ypl'inciple. Ya.rnha Mihira in Cha.pte1• 68 of his Brihat Samhita (Stanzas 90 :to 93) bas thus stated in detail the complexion due to each of the seven .planets: '' The comp1exion discernib1e in shining teeth, ·skin, 11ails aud hairs of the body and of the head will be uttend.ed with prosperity ; it is caused by the element of eurth ; it makes the person happy, rich and vit·tuous.'' "The complexion wbioh is glossy, white, o1en.r, green ~nd agreeable to look at is caused by the element of water; it will make all creatures poss~ssing it happy and sucoessf 111 in all their attempts and will produce wealth, comfort, luxury and prosperHy." "The complexion which is fenrfnl, unbearable, of the color or the lotus, gold or fire, and indicating strength, power and va1or, is caused by the element of the, nod it b1·ings success to a person and enables him to gain his desired object." "The complexion which is dirty, not g1ossy, black and of bad sce»t, is caused by the element of ail· ; it will cause to the person death or imprisonment, disease, ruin and loss of wealth.'' '' The comp1exion which is of the color of crystal, noble, olenr and indicating wealth and generosity, is caused by the elE1ment of ether; it gives a. peraon all that he desiret1.'' Now suppose the do.sa pe1·iod to be tl10.t of M,u·s, his element is fire; the complexion c11nsed by the elementary principle of fire described above, will be the complexion of a person in . the dasa period of Marfl and so for the other planets. Again, the property of earth is smell, discernible by the nose ; that of wate1· is taste, discernible by the tongue that of fll'e or light is shape 01'. appt,a.1·ance, discernible by • Digitized by Goog I e 89CB, 8] BRJBlT IATilA, the eye; that of air is tonch, diaoeruible by t.he body; and that of .A.kas is sound, discernible by the ear. Suppoae the dasa. period to be t.hat of Venus, his element is water; the quality belonging to water is tftste, discernible by the tongue. Therefore in the daaa period of Venus, the person wiU -sat juiby meals according to his desire. In the dasa period of Jupiter (Akas-sound), the, person's speech will be sweet aud agreeable to the, ear; in the period of :Mercury (earth-smell), the person's body will be wit-h an agreeable. odor; in that of Mars (fire-shape) he will be of agree&ble appea1-ance ;'and in that of Saturn(air~touoh, be will be of soft body. F1·om a careful observation of theae qualities the particular daaa period of a person may also be deter · mined. 21. In the benefio daaa period of a planet thtt good effects are oaused immediately by the Divioe Soul living ,rithin the body and assuming for the time being a benefi.o cbaracter.(a) When a pe1'80n is found to enjoy the good efFeots described for a planetary dasa period, it may be concluded that such dasa period is going on at the time. As l'egards the etl'ects described for planets which might be powerless, these are experienced by a person either in his dream or in mental reveries. Notes. (a). lf the dasa period baa. mlllefic one, the divine aoul assumes a malefic charaoter for the time, and if the period be of a mixed. natnre, the divine soul assumes a correspond.ing obaracter. • (b). A wild train of thought in whioh a pe1-son enjoys or suffers according to his hopes or rears. 23; I£ the character of the • 1ord of a dasa pel'iod be found to bebenefic under one yoga and malefic under another yoga, neit.her of the effeots will occur; if two yogas give a • Digitized by Google B&IIU.T 1ATB:A. [cH. 8 cbaractor and . one another characte1•; the f oraner will take effect. But. if to two distinct planets oonftlcting effects have been assigned, both will come to pass. Not.es.-'.rhe division of life into dasaaas given by the anthor is b&rdly studied by Indian astrologers,. evidently f1•om the difficulties attending its application. These astrolo• gers, us a class, employ the· exceedingly simple division of life into what is known aaUdu or Nakshatradnsas.According to this the mnximum period of lrnman life is divided into 9 J>arts pre11ided over b.y the seven planets uud by Uahu and Ketu-the two nodes of the Moon. They come in the fol.lowing order and their years are also given below : (1) 1.rhe Sun, 6 years. (5) J·upiter, 16 years. (2) 'l'bJ' Moon, 10 ,, (6) Satu1·n, IO ,, (8) Mars, 7 ,, (7) Mercury, 17 ,, . (4) . Rahu, · 18 : ,, (8} Keto, 7 u . (9) Venus, 20 years. The lord of the dasa. period at the time of birth is aacer• tained from the osterism which the Moon occupies at the time-the nine triangular asterisms represent the nine dasas: if tho ref 0l'e at the time of bh-tb, the Moon occupy one of the triangular asterisms of Krittika,U. Phalguni and U. Asbadha, the dasa period is that of the Sun. Rohini, Hasta and Sravana ... Moon. Mrigaafrsha, Ohit1·aand S1·aviahta •.. Mars . .Ardra, Swati and Satobhisbak ... Rahn . . Punarvasu, Visa.kba and P. Bhadrapada ... Jupiter. Pushya, Anura.dha and U. Bhadrapada Saturn. Aslesha, Jyeshta a.nd Revati ... Mercury. Aswini, Manha and Mala ... Keto. Dharani, P. Phalguni and P. Ashadba Veou1 . • Digitized by Google ca.8] J3&IBAT1 AT.U:A, Ol How much of the pel'iod of a particu)u.1·dasa. has elapsed and bow much remains at the time of birth wost be ascer.tained from the portion of the asterism passed over by the Moon and the portion remaining at the time. This may be roughly ascertained from the time taken by the Moon. to go over the portion of the asterism-the whole time in whiob the Moon passes through a particular asterism (us given in the Calendar) representing the full period of a dasa ; e.g. suppose the M.oon to take 64, gl1atika.s aud 42 vighatikas to go over the aaterism of Krittike., and suppose that at the time of birth, the Moon has gone over a portion of asterism covered by 24, ghatikas and 16 vighatikas. Required the number of yea.rs remaining at the time of birth in the dasa period of the 811n. ·Now the time in which the Moon will go ov~r the 1·emaining portion of the astorism Qf Kl'ittika= 64.gh. 42. vigb-24 gh. 16 vigh. =40 gh. 26 vigh. Now 64 gh. and 42 vigh. represent th~ whole period of 6 years of the Sun. Therefore time required 6 yea.1·s . = -~ X4.0.gh. 26 vigh, 64.gb, 42 Vif::b· 6 _ _ -X4.0 X60~+26. 64 X 60 + 42 • 6 6 = -X 2'26 years= --X1" 1313 years88"2 1941 7278 :::i --years =3 ye&l's, 8 months, 29 day11,1941 61 ghatikas, 89 vighatikas. , To this mnst. be added in the order stated the dasa periods of the Moon, Mars, Rahu, &c., till we . come to the present age of the person. Again, the _nine dasa periods are each divided into 9 snb-divisons known as a.nt&rdasas-the. lord of the firsi • Digitized by Google BRJH.lT 1ATAli, Loa. 9 02 antarda&& being the lo1·d of the daaa period, and those of the antardaaaa which follow 11re the eame as the lords of the daea periods whioh follow ; ao that the anta,·daaaa, of the dasa period• of Jupiter fur inetanoe are those of J npit.er Saturn, Meroory, Kelu, Venne, the Sun, th(Moon, Mars and Rahu. The length of the antardaea periods bear the same proportion to each : other aa the lengths of the daaa periods. For instance, required the length of the :antardasa pe1iod of Venus in the dasa period,of Jupiter. The dasa pe1·iod of Jupitel' ia 16 years, thJt of Venus ia 20 years, that of all the planets is 120 years ; therefore the length of the antardasa 16 years 8 period required = -~~ 20 years= -years=2 years 120 years S and 8 mouths. Again, each of the anta1·dasa period is ful'ther BDh.divided into 9 parts i~ the same proportion, known as Suksh~a periods. The appendix will oontain tables for the periods of the •dasa, antardasa and nkNlll&. periods.also for readily asoertaioiog by mere inspeotion the pel'iod from one dasa period to another and from one antar.dasa period to another antardasa period. CHAPTER IX. ON AsHTAl:AVARGA.s(a). 1. The benefic places of the Sun are the 1st, 2nd, 4tb, 7tl1, 8th, 0th 10th nnd 11th housoa from l1imselt ; the same plaoes from Mars and Saturn ; the CJ'th,7th ,and 12th • • .~oases from Venus ; the 6th, 6th, 9th and 11th honses from Jupiter; the 81·d, 6th, 10th and 11th hooses fl'om the Moon; the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th, lOLh, 11th, and 12th houses from Mercury, and tho 8rd, 4th, 6th, 10th, 11th and 12 th houses from Lagoa. • Digitized by Google CB, 9) BBIBAT IATH'.A, 93 (a). This me1ms the benefic and m'.llefio pl"Ces of" planet with reference to eight places-the places occupied by the seven planets and the Lagna. at the time orbirth. 2. The benefio places of the Moon are the 8rd, 6th, 10th and 1 Hh houses from Lagr,a ; the 2nd, 3rd, ntb, 6th, 9th, 10th, and llth houses from Mars; the )st, '3rd, 6th, 'ith, 10th and 11th houses from l1erself (Moon); tl1e 31·d, 6th, 7th, 8th, 10th nnd 11th hou!les from the Suu ; tl1e 3rd, 5th, f;th and 11th houses from Saturn ; the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th houims from Mercnry; the 1st, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th, 11th a.nd 12th houses from Jupiter; and the ~rd, 4,th, 6th, nh, 9th, 10th and 11th houses from Venus. 8. The benefic places of Mars are the 3rd, 5th, 6th 10th and 11th bou!les from the Sun; the 1st, Srd, 6th 10th and 11th houses from Lagoa; the 3rd, 6th, and 11th houses from the Moon; lhe 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th, and 11th houses from himself (Mars); the 1st, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th~-10tb and 1J th houses from So.turn ; the Srd, :,th, 0th atid 11th houses from Mercury, the 6th, 8t11, 11th and 12th houses from Venus; and the 6th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses from Jupiter, • 4,. The benefio places of Mercury are the lat, 2nd, Srd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9tlt and 11th houses from Venus ; the ,ah, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th houses from Snturn and M11rs; the 6th, 8th, 11th and 12th houses from Jupiter; the 5th, 6th, 9th, 11th and 12th houses from the Sun; the A lat., 3rd, 5th, 6tb,r.h, 10th and llthl\housea from himself;/..? the 2nd, 4th, 6t.h, 10th and 11th hoosea from the Moon ; 0 and the 1st, 2nd, 2th, 6th, 8th, lOtl1, and 11th houses from Lagna. o. The benefio places of Jupiter are the 1st, 2nd, 4th• 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th houses from Mar.s; th~ lst,2od, 3rd Digitized by Google 94 BaIB.lT 1ATAB:.&. (011. 9 4.th, nh, 8th, 10th a.nd 11th houses 'from hirosel£ ;the lat, 2nd Srd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and llt.h housee from the Sun; the 2nd, 5th, 6th, 9th 10th nnd 11th houses from Venus; the 2nd, 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th houses from the Moon ; the . Srd, 5th,6th and 12th houses from Saturn; the 1st, 2nd,4th, l>th, 6th, 9th, 10th, and 11th houses from Mercury, and the 1st, ~nd, 4tl1, 5th, 6th, 7th, 9th,.10th and 11th houses ft·om Lngnn. .,.; 6. The bonefio places of Vonus are the lat, 2nd, 8rd, _A J.4th, 5th, 8th, 9th and 11th houses from Lagna; the 1st, 2nd, q•,1 ,Srd, 4th, 5th1111th and 12th honses from the Moon ; the lat, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th houses from him.self ; the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 1 Hh houses from Satu1·n; the 8th, lUh and 12th houses from the Bun ; the 5th,8th, 9th, 10th and 11th hom1es from Jupiter;the 8rd, 5th, 6th, 9th and 11th houses from Mercury; nnd the 3rd,. 5th, 6th, 9th, 11th and 12th houses from Mars. 7. The benefio places of Saturn are the 3rd, 5th, 6th and 11th l1ouses from himself; the 8rd, 5th, 6th, l 0th, 11th and 12th houses. from Mars; the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, IOUl and 11th houses from the Sun; the 1st, Srd, 4th, 6th, 10th and 11th houses from Lagna ; the 0th, 8th, 9th, 10th, l ltl1 antl 12th houses f1·om Mercury ; the8rd,6th, and ?1th houses from the Moon; the 6~h, 11th and the 12th houses from Venne.; and the 5th, 6th, llth and !2th houses. from Jupiter. 8. 'l'hus have baen Jesoribed the benefic plaoes of the planets; the other plnces ure 1nalefic.{a) A place will produce benefio or malefio effects iCit be more beuefio for the planet than malefic or vice versa.(b). These places are a.11with reference to the places oooupt.ed by the planets a.t the time of birth. The planets while passing through places which happen to be the U paoha.ya houaea or whioll might be their own houses or their friendly Digitized by Google cu. 9] 'DBIB.lT IATAX:A. or exl\ltation signs, produce bone6o efl'11cts fully it suoli J1ouaea or sigus are more Lenofic for \he· planets ·than UiAle6o ; arid planets while passing through places which happen to be Apaohnya houses or which wight be theil' iuimi<.-al or depression signs, produce malefic effects fully if such houses ot· signs be more malefic for the planets than benefic. Notes. (a.). For instance, the trd, lil h, 6th Rod ):Zth l1ouRcs from himself are malefic placea fo1· the Sun. The 1st, 2nd~ ,u,, 5th, 7th, 8th, \:Ith, and 12th hooses fl'om Lag~a o.a·e malefic 11laces for the Moon, and so forth. (b). In preparing tables or Asbtakavarg11, it is usual to mnrk the benefic places with dots and the malefic place11 with lines. We will pat down the· Asbtakavarga. table for Mani in the following horoscope :.Mark the be11e60 pl11ces[ of Mel's with dots. and tho malefic pluccs. with lines. ·The result will be found ,o be as follows. 13 Digitized by Google BBIB~T JATAIU,, • LoB. 9 ;;;::: 8 000 ::; 8 000 =3000 = 3000 11111 :;:; 6 11111 = 5lllll = Ii Hlll =f> .. ,. . ··• 00) = 3 0000 =°' 11111::::; 5 1111 = 4 Asbtaka Varga of Mars. 00000~:;:;;.G 00000 a 5 111 =3111 =S 00000:;::: 6 00 =2 0 = I 00 =~ lllllll =7 111 = 811llll=6 111111= & The table means that wl1ile Mars moves through sign Aries for ineta:Qoe, the benefio effects will be .and •he male6o effects will be ., In other words he·. produces malefic effects •o the extent of .-.or f-of hie power. ·similar reIQarks apply to the other :pll\ces. Notes.-The Aahatakavarga tables are generally pre. paredwith tho number of benefio dota alone markedin theIQ -the  number representing  the male6o liriea being  the  difference bet\veoil number 8 and the  nuuibe1· of dots.  The  above table will then stand as follows,;. 3. 3, s. 3. s. 4. 5.. i. 2. l, 5. s. _,. ~ All these nu:w.bers 1·epa-esent the benefic dot1.• Digitized by Google DRIRAT UTfi.l.• 97 The A.V. tables are ttseful ln the ptediction of in.oet; of thi importattt events of lite. Regular treatises exist on thts bra.nch .,rhorosoopy; which muat; be consulted tor t'\tll partidulara, We ahaJl give here some of the 1ISe8 or the A., V.tablos, 'the tables prepared) aa stated above; with Ggutes r&'.presentlng benefid dots are subjected to two reductions or eHmioation11, known as Trikona 11.ttdEkadhipnttya red.uc, tlons-that is, of the 6gttt·es in the triangular aigns, and of the figures in the several pairs of aigna forming \he houses of the planets from M:arsto Saturn, I. Tatx:01u. oa 'l'au.Hoti'L.U R1:nuar10Hs. The Triangular signs are given in the noteit to St.nia 6 of Chapter t. The reductiott rules are :.l. I£ the 6gures in the triangular sigus be Dot all alike 1ubtract from eaoh the least ot the three figures, keeping the remainders. i. If there be Do figure in one of the~flhree signs, no reduction need be made. 8. If there be Do figure in two of the three signs remove the figure in the third. -6. If the figures in the three signs be equal, reuiove the~ all. II. EU.DBlPATTTA REDUCTIONS. The Ekadhipattya signs are given in the notea to Stanza 6 ~of Chapter I. The reduction rules are :.1. ICthere be planets in both the hon888 of a planefi DO reduction need be made. 2. 0£ the ~wo houses of a planet, one of which is occupied and the other not, ( J) if the figure in the former Digitized by Google '98 DRmAT JA.TAE'.t, [oe. 9 be smallerthan tho figore in the latter, make tho latter equal to the fo1·mer, (2) if the figo1·e in the fol'mer be •greater than the fig1ll'e in the latter, remove the fatter, (8), if ~he fig~l·es in :both . be equal, remove thel figu\·e in the latter. s. Of the two hC1usesof a planet, boU1lof which are not occupied, (a), if the fig1ll'ea iu the two houses be equul xemove both; (b), if the figures be uneq11al, make the Ja1·ger figure equal to the smaller oue. ' 4. If there be no· figure in one of the two J1onsea no reduction need be made. 5. The figures in)he aigns Cancer:and4Loo, wliich are ·respectively the houses of the Moon and the Sun, are not subjeot to the Ekadbipatt.}•a reduction. lLLOSTRATJON. We will appl7 ihese ruloa to the A, V. table of Mars given ah·eady. • •RBDUCl'ION J. The figures in the Triangular signs of Al'iea,Leo unu Saggitt1u·i are respectively 8, 5, 2, Under rule (1) snbtl'a.ot 2 from en.ch, and tho resulting 6guJ'es are 1, 8, 0. 'l'he figures in the triangulilr sigi1s of Ta.urns, Virgo and C11pl'i.001·u, n.re respectively 8, 2, 5. .Applying rule (l) we get l, O, 8. 'fhe figures in the tdangula1· signs of Gemini, Libra und Aquariea are 3, 5, 8, Applying rule (1) we got . O, 2, 0. 'l'he figures in the triaugulai-signs of Oaocer, Scor.pio and Pisce11 lll'8 4, ) ' 2 . .Applying rule (l) we get s, 0,2. : So. that theA. __V. of Mars afterthe fit-at reductio~s~ndsas . follows. Digitized by Google 99a.., 9,] BRIUAT 1ATAKA, -- 2 0  1 1  0 3  A. V. or llal'l'I aft.er Reduction  3  No. I.  3  0 0 2 0 R&nuo·rroN.No. II, 1'hia red.notion shoulcl be mncle only to the figures r~ enltlog from Reduction No, I. Of Aries •nd Scorpio, the two houses of Mars, Aries is oooupied and Scorpio is onooonpied• The figures in them are I, and o, respectively.· Under rule (4) no reduction need ·be made. 'l'aurua and Libra, the two houses of Venus,_are both ocoopied; under rule (I) no tednotion need be ~tur.ih,. Gemini and Virgo, the two houses of Mercury are both unooonpied, • the fignl'88 in them Are, o antl o-Rule ( 4) appHes and there is no nect>ssity for reduotion, Of Pisces and Sagittari, the two houses of Jupiter, the former alone .is occupied and the figures in them are 2 and o. Under rule ( 4) no reduction need be made. Of Aquarius and Cap.ricorn the two houses of Satu1·0 the ]Rtter alone i11 OCOU• pied and the figures jn them are 0 1 and 8. Applying rule -6no reduction need be made, The figures in Oanoer and Leo, which are respectively the houses of the Moon andthe Sun, are not subject to reduoliou Vide 1·ule 5, These figul'ca • are 3 and 8. So that after Reduction N(\. II t!·" •. V. table of Mars . will stand thus :-;.Digitized by Google BBlitA.T 1ATAK!;. [cli. 9. The tola.l of figures after the 2 l'edttotions is lo, Similnrly the A. V. tables of the. Sun, the Moon, :Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and f:aturn may bo reduced. We will now give some 0£ the usea of these tables. A. V. of the Sun. In the case or A. V. of the Sun,(a) multiply the total of the figm·es after reduction• by the figure in the 9th house from the Sup. in the A, V. • Divide the prodnot by 27 and· take the remainder. Mark the asterism., oonntiog the re.mainder from Aswini. When Satnrn:·paases through such asterism or through its triangular asterist)ja either a person's father or paternal nnele will die or 1oft'er miseries if the planetary dasa period at tbe time be a malefic one. No work ahl\11 be oommenoed when the Sun passes through signs where there are no figures in A..V. of the Son• During such periods a person antlers from diseases, mise1·y and q11a11·el. • Multiply tl1e totnl of reduced figures by the figures in the 8th house from the Sun in the A. V. of the Sun. Divide the product by 12. 'l'be remainder represents the sign (month) from Aries, through wbioh or through one of its triamgular signs when the Sun passes a person dies (in the year of bis death). (ca) A. V. of a planet la the Aahtaka Varga of a plaAetbefore reduction. Digitized by Google -ca.9.] BBIHAT JATAU, 101 Add together the three 6gurea in ench of the 4 sets of the triangular aigns Ariee,Leo, Sagittari, &c.Find out. whioh or these totals is the largest. Fiud out the Dik or qu•uter for the;particnlar set of triangular signs giving t.he ·total. {V~do note (J) to stanza 19 Ohapter II). The place of wo1•• ahip in the houseor a:peraon will be in such direction . .A.V. of the Moon. :Multiply the total of the reduced figures by the figure in the 4th house from the lloou in A, V of the Mooo; divide the product by 2'7,take the remn.ioder and for it find out the ast-,rism from::Aswir.i as before. When Saturn pBaBes through such asteriam or through its triangular asteriams a person's mother dies or suffers miseries if the planetary d&BBperiod at the time be a malefic one. Multiply the _total or reduced figures by the figure in the 8th house from the Moon in tlie A. V. of the Moon. Divide the product by 27. Take the remaiudel'; and for it find out the asterism . from Aswiui a.a before. When the Moon posses through it or[tl,rough its triangular aste1·isma there will be quarrel, anger_ and.~grief. No work shall be commenced when~the Moon passes through signs in whicii:there:are no figures in the A. V. of the Moon. Find out;the Dik or quarter as before and H will give the poaition.j<)f_tb(b&tb.room in the house of~a,person. A. V. oCMars. When Sn.tumpasses through signs in which there aro no figures in the A.V. of M,ns,~tbe person will sutte,· from· diseases,:if Mara be powerful, and will die iCMars be weak and if he be not the lord of. the ascendant. Digitized by Google BCIHAT JATAJCA., Find ont the nik or quarter as before. It will give the po&ition of the kitchen in a peraon>11 house, A. V. of :Mercury. When S"turn passes through signs in wl1iob there are DO fiJ.rures in the A.V. of Me,·oury the person>s son or friauda will die. Find out the Dile or qui~1•teras before . . It will give tho position of the pll\y•ground in the house of a 1>erdon. A. V. of Jupiter. The figure in the 5th house from Jupiter in the A. V. of Jnpiter will give the number of eons of~ penoo. Tbe nom• her of those meeting with enrly death will be the number of pJ,mots oconpying inimical 01· dept·esaion signs. The Dik or quarter ascertained os befo1·e will give the position of the Treasury or store-room, A. V. of Veous. A person will get a wife, landa and wealth whenVenus passes through signs oont.ainiog the largest figote in the A. _V. of Veuus after reduction . . '~'he Dik 01• quarter aaoerla.iued as before will give the position of tlte bed room. A. V. of Saturn. In the A. V. of Sutnru adJ together the figures in the aig,tHfrom the ascendant tu t.he house oooupied by Saturn 1111J also figm·es iu the si~11afl'om Saturn to the ascendant. The two t,,tals will give tho yeurs in which a person will suff'or ft·om disenaes and from grief. Add the two totals tbe sum will give the ye1tr iu which a persou':1 life will be iu danget•. A similut·1·om1u-k applies to the A. V. of M,,rs. Digitized by Google Bimu·.tiATAB:!. 10S When the Snn and the Moon pass through signsiat whioh the 6gures are least in the A. V. of Satnrn, a person dies (in his year or dellth). The l>ik or quarter ascertained as heroro gives tiu, position of the spot where the sweepings are g•thered. Ba-r,,a,,htuka Ycn·g~ 'l'be Ashtaka v1ugas of the Sn~ o.nd other pianola con.11iJered sapnra.tely a.re known as Bbintiashtaka vargus and their sum forms What is known as Sarvashta~a va.rga. Iii. tbe latter, tbe figure iii sign Aries _is the sum of the figures in sign Aries in the several Bliinnasbta.ka vargns; similarly the figure in sign . lfaurn(or S. A. V. ia the sum of the figures· in sign '.l'aw·usof the Ji . .A..Ye. and the ftgiu;es of the· other signs mai be similarly obtained. 1'he total of· these figareawill .alwaysbe 88'7-thia being the rium ol the. totals of the fighr~s of the seven B; A. Vs. ':l'helatter figuNs· are 48, 49, 89 ,· 54, 56, 6a and 39· from Sun to· Saturn. •' ' Now vari~us event.,oflife aa·e p~dio·Led b1means ofthe figure~ ofthe s:A.V, tabl~. • • • • (1). If the figure in a partioaiar ·sign exceed SOthen planets passing through it will pl'odnce bonefic eJl'ects; if it be bet~een 25 and 30, such efl'ecta will be neither good nor b~ aud if the ~inre be less than 25.the·effecsta will bebad . . Again, all good wo1·ks shall be commenced when the . 1·isi11·gsign is one whose figure is largest in the S. A. V; table aud inarriages arid other connections ahall be formed with persona whoso et.al' is one of the sta1·s of such sign~ (2). As the 10th house represents labour, the 11th hous~ gain and the J2th loss, if the figure in, tbo _11th h~uso be greater tban the figure in the 10th house and if the figure iii the 12th houfse be smaller than the 6gure in the 11th house and if the figure io the asceudaut ba greater than the figure 14, Digitized by Google 104 in the _12Lbho11se the person will be happy and proape1·om.tl.ie meuning ia clear, the labol" being alight, gain inuch 1111d loss co:nparntively . mall. ICthe figures be otherwise the person will be unhappy. (!3). Excepting the 6'Lh, 8th and 12th housl'S, of the remaining 9 hous·ea, the significations of those where tlut figures are large will ba in a cooclition of prosperity (Yide.note (a) to St&nz• 15, Chapter I.) (4.} Add togethe1• the figures of the font' signs fl'on. Piaces,-Pil!ces, A1·ies, 'J'a.urus and Gemini. Add alim the fig11res of the four signs from C11noer anil or thi, four sign& from Scorpio, These three· totals represent the three seotiona of a. man'11 life. Whichever total is the largest., the corresponding division of life will be happy and pros.perous. If three or more malefic pl11net11 occ11py the fou-r 11ign11from Pisces a person will a11ft'er miderios in the lat seotion of life; if the,-occupy the fo11r signs from Cimcer the miseries will occur in the 2nd section, a11d if they occupy t.be four signs from Scorpio, then, in the Srd sootion of Jife. If the planets in the several -sections he benetio the person will be happy ; and if both malefio and bene6o pla.nets occupy the 11evera.l sections thu tift"ects will be both good and bad. I'-. Add together tbe figures fo the houses oocupiecI h1 Satul'D, Lagoa. and .Ma.re. The su1n will give the year in which a person will suffer from Jiseaees and othe.· miseries .. G, A.dJ togeth11r the ftgnres of hou.,es occupied bJ Ri,hu~ Mo.r11 and Sa.turn. Thtt sum will give the year in which a pet'lfOD will suff11r from poisou, weapons aud wounds. 7. Add together.Che ti~urea of the s1gn1 oc°"pied by be1iefio· pluueta. 'rhe aum will give the year in whiob • po1·,1011will.get 1• sou, wealth 1m<l the like. • Digitized by Google c,a. 9.] BRIRA.T 11TUl. 105 8. llultipt1 t.be total of the 6gure11 of A. V. of tho plauet who ia the lord of the 8Lh boWte from the.AScendant by the tlgnre of the 8th house in S. A. V. table. Divide the product b.1 12; the temainder will give the :Month from .Aries in whicls a person .dies (in the year of his death.) In lbe same way the m•nth of death of a ,p.eraon•11 father may be ascertained by "similar calculation with refttreuce to the P~h house and that of the mother with reference to the 4tt.h house. 9. Find ont from the S. A. V. table tba powerrul Dik or quarter. Oowsheds, rice field11, 11griculturnl operntiooa shall be O\lnducted in sueh dik or quarter and the weak dik or quarter shall be rejected for all purposes • .Ag11in,P11rasar&i.n his Ho"' Sastra, a very voln.minons work, h11&treated of 82 distinct processes for ascer.taining the length of human life. They are : I. . Pindaynrdaya  ... ...  12  n.  Dhrbvaynrday~  ... ....  •••  .I,  III.  Basmibyurdaya  ...  . ..  4t  IV.  Amsabyurdaya  4  V. Ashtakav11,·gaynrJRya 4 IV. Visbayftynrday11 ... 2 vn. Nakab11tramaaka7nrd11ya· ... 2 'l'otal ~2 I. PiMayurclaya.. This ia divided into S schools, (1 )· tha.t of Yavan11oliary11. {vitte Stanza l Ch. 7), (2) that of Jeevasarmn (vide stfinn 9 Uh, 7}, \6) that of BooRr&yana. aecording to which the max(mum y6nra or eaoh plane, when in his exalt.at ion sign is one-seventh of \00 yea,·s. E"oh or \he~e three ~ohools b.11114 sub-diviRions: (a) The Neeohnrdhharanf\ proees.<t !'!CCO~ding t-0 ..,hioh the Digitized by Google nnmAT .JAT.UU, [en. 9. maximum period is one-bal~ at depression. (b) The Neecha.bhava process according to which the period vanishes at depression. (o) The Krita barana process ac~oraing to. wllich tbe periods suffer reductions.· (d) 1.'h~ A~rita liarana process ncoording to which the periods JUff'd~ no )edu_o1tions. Thus Pindayurdaya is of U sorts. 11,Dhru,vayurdaya: This is otherwise known as Nysargikaynrdaya. (vide Stanza ~!) CJ,. 8). As stated above there are 4 kinds of this: depending on the 4 divisions ~entioned above-(a), (b), (c) ftUd (4). III. Basmikayurda11a. According to this the years of the planets from the S11n to Saturn are respectively 16, 20, 9, S, 9, 2ij, and 26. There are 4 kinds of this as stated above. lV 4m1aka11urilaya. This is Satyacharyar's method referred to at t~e end of stanza 9 Oh. 7, This prooess, in certain cases has to be varied into what is known as Pr~knAmanngata niethod. The two processes again divide, each, into two parts known as ~ritavridhiko. and Akritavridhika-i. o. the yeal'S • are io be increased according to some and not to be increased according to others, VidB Fa~ra's HQt1' S,astra. • 'f~ns we get 4 kind11 of Amsakayardaya. V. Aahtakava,·gayurdaya. 1.'his process as stated above has to be varied into what is known as Prakramanugo.ta method. ':t'he two pro• cesses again divide, each, into two· parts known as Krita .. vridhi and Akdtav.-idhi as stated above, Vi,le. l'arasa.ra Hora. Thus we get 4 kinds or Ash&akavargayurdaya. 0.ntl <:1£these ~ methods is given at tlie onq of these note~. Digitized by Google CD, 3,] 10'7 VI. Vuhayauurdaya. This consists or two kind~tbe one according to Pnra.sara and the other as mentioned in a wol'k nl\med Prnkri.yama]a. The~e p,rtake_ of the nature of the A11ht.akava1·ga. VII. N riluhalram,akay'U'l'daya, This is of two kinds-the one is known as the Kala· cbakra proce~ and the other as the Nakshtra.dasa, Thus 8~ processes are mentioned by Parasnra. who at the same time states the particn]nr cases to _which each process is appJicable. Of these 32 processes, Varaha Mihira has mentioned the most important one1 in chapter 1. For fnrther particulars in A.yurdaya the reader ia referred to Lhe works of Parasara and other writers. • We shall he~e state the detai11 of the Asbtalravarga 1 • proceas, • The foUowing tables a.re employed in the process. Baal Gunakara or. ZQcliaoal factors • .,.Aries . •• 7 Libra Taurus .. . l 0 Scorpio 8 Gemini 8 Sagittari. 9. Cancer ... 4, Capricorn 5 Leo l 0 Aquarius 11.·-· Virgo . . . 5 Pisces .... 1~ Graha .G~nak.~ or. Pl~etary factors The Son 5 Mercury 5 The Mooll ••• & Jupiter 10· M"ra. . .~. ~. Venus ... 1 SATURN. 5, Multiply the several· figures in the signs from Aries in tbe Ashtakavarg11 ofthe Sun by the figures of the Rasi Gunak.ara tnbl_e respectively and ndd the pt'odoots. Again !DUltiply the ae:veral figures in the signti occu. pied by the $qn nnd other planets h1 the figurosl of. tbe Digitized by Google i03 6RIBAT J4'J',&.ltA•. [cs. 9. ,Graha Guuakara table ..respectively and add the products. Add tho l\~o total~. Multiply the sum by 7; divide the pod act hy 27. Tiu~ qootient will give the yeal'ltof the _Sun. lluhiply the remainde1· by 12 and divide the product by 27 the quotient will give th-, months; multiply the remainder by SO 1md divide the product by 27 ; the qnotient will give the days, and si111ilal'lyfiud the Ghat.ikae aud Vigbadkas. Thus we laave obtained the A. V. years or the Sun. Similarly those or the M,ion, Mars, Mercury, Jnpiter, Venne and S11turnmay be obt"ined from the A. V. t~bles. Now these periods are subjec:• to the following reduc.tjoqs. (1.) If n. planet is accompanied by another planet in a sign the amount of reduction is one-half of the period obtained. (2.). If a planet occupy his depression sign, tl1e amount or reduction is one-l1a.lf. (S:) If be be an Astangata pln.net, the amount of re.duction is also one-half. (4.) If he occnpy an iuimioal sign, the amount is one.thlt-d. ( 5.) If he oocupy the visible hemisphere the amoun, fe one-half. (Ii,) If he suffer defeat in conjunction tbe amount is one.third. (7.) Jn the case orthe Sun and the Moon again, if these ho of u11usual appearance the amount is one-t.hil'd . •N B. 'Where eeveral reductions bave to be applied to the period of a planet it will be onongh if_the 1,u·gest of theD1 be alone m1,1le. Digitized by Google ca. O.] lOf After making the seve.arl redactions add up the resultJ Ing yeal'B of the plaueui, mu1tiply the aum by 8~4,and divide the prodnot by 365. The q1101ient •ill give the length of a person'isJirein years, mouths, days, &e. Again, in the A. V. of Saturn a~ befon-1 mohipl7 the flgutes of t.he e~veral signs Crom Arif'a by the Zodiacal fac.tors and add up the products: Muhil'Jy the figures in the sever11l eignli ooc:upied by the Sun and other planPtR by the aeve1·al pln.netary factors and add up the products. .Add tog<>ther the two totBls, To the 11um add tl1e 11urn of the figures resut,ing after making the Tdkona Rnd Ek"dhi.; patya reduct,fona to the figures of t.he A. V, of S11turn. Multiply the 11t1mby the figure in the 8th house from the a,-ceodant in the A. V. of Sat.Urn ; di~ide the proclnct, by 27 ; the quof,ient will alRo give the length of,. person;• life,pro.vided flOOh length ia otbAntiii1d found to r&nJrebetween s, and 68 years ; the lengt.h of life will be 27 yeRts less lhe.n the period obtained if the person's age is otherwise found to range from 1 to 88. years a11cl27 yeat'8 more than tbd period obtained if such length be found to raugo between 67 and 100 years and denth will oconr if. the dn.ioaperiod be a ma.lefia one. . '!'here are bait-f proc881Seafor asoertafoiog by inspection 1tbether the length of life of a person falls in · the first, or the second or the third section of the maxi-· mum period of 100 years Yids. the Aalrologioal ApbodalD'B of Jaimuui. Hitherto we ha-t•e been dt-aling with the table, ot'. the B, A. V. and S. A.,V, preparetl with the figures re.presenting tbe benefio planetnry placea. 'l'ablea oao al1:10be . prepared with figures representing tlae mnletiu places of the planets. (Ylcu not.a b, to ata11P 8). Spt,cial rules f'sist .. relating to the predioLioo 0£ even'8 of Hfu with tbo help of the· figures of tbeae tablt'I, The rel\der is referred to the works of Paraaara. Digitized by Google BRitlA'l JAT.U:&, [cH, 10, OHPTER x. ONAvOOA'l'lOH, J. A. pPrson gota wealth from Lia father, mother, enemy, friend; brother, wife or se1·vant a.coo1·diog na tho planet which occupies the 10th house f1•om the Lo.goa or· from the Moon is the S11n, or the Moon, or Mars or Mercury, or Jupiter or Venne or Saturn reapeotiveiy (a), If there be no such planet, the avocation: of a pe1-son will bo that ahted for the pl:u1ets(b) which might be the Jo1·daof the Navamsas occupied by the lords of the 10th bo11i;ea£,·om Lagoa, the Moon and the Sun (o). Notes. (a), If tlie·l0~h house: from the asaendant and the 10th house from the Moon be both occupied by planets; a person will acqnir~ wealth from botli sou~ces, and if several planets ocoupy the ;10th house there will be severalsources of wealth. <b). Vida stanzas2 ancl,S, . • (o) Suppose· sign dancer is theLagna ~ the 10th house from: Oanoe1•is .Aries; the lord of Aries is Mars ; suppose Mars to ooonpy the Navamaa of· &gittari ; tbe lord o! &gitt.e.ri is Jupiter and the avocation atatad tor Jupiter (11,ds Srd ate.11110.} will be the avocation or a person. n also follows that a peraou'a avocation will be all the three stated tor. the Jorda of the Navamsas • occupied by the lo1·ds of the 10th houses from Lagna, the Moon and the Sun. 2. If' the lord of the Nnvnmsa (a) be the Sun, a person will del\l in perfumes, gold; woollen faibrio, medeoiue, aod the like. If the lord be the }loon, he will till landi, or deal in the prod11otiona of water (b) or get. money through women, (o) If he be Mars, the person·wm deal Digitized by Google Htba. 10.) iu meWa or mio.etale) fire (d) or weapc,ns and :wmalso ac.quire weaith by acts of boldueBS; if he be Mercury, the person will be a writer; an accountant., and the like (e) and will ».lso 6oquire wealth by • vit.riona handicraft (/). Notes, (ii). That is the lord of the Navan.ea occupied by the lord of the 10th house from Lagoa, the Moon and the Sun. (b). Buch aa pearia, conch ebells, whale-bones and t.he Ukei (~). By aervlng under or otherwise following them, (d). Fin,: be may be the driver or a fire engine or a dealer in matches and the like. • (1). By writing commentaries on the works of writers and the llke. (/J. Such as painting, book-blnding, arrow-making ot the making of flower-wreaths; sandal paste, perfumes and the lik:e, S. I£ the lord of the Navamaa be Jnpiter, a person ,rill get wealth through Bra.hmins, the i>evas or learned Ulen, through mines (a) anci tlte like (b) and through acts of virtue {e) ;if be be Venne, the persob willldeal in gems,(d) silver and other ttietals; in oowa and buffaloes ; and if the lord be &turn, the peraon:wm acquire wealth by means of hard Jabour, (e) by aota of toi·ture, (/) by carrying bttr• dens and by low deeds nnauitedtohis rank. Thus persons acquire wealth by avocation stated] for the tlords of Navamsaa occupied by the lords of the 10th house. (g) . . (a). The word in tbe textis Akara wbicluincludoa gold and silver mioea, placos where salt ia produced or where elephants are fonnd. (b). Snch as contract work, 16 Digitized by Google JIBIIJ.t.T1AT4JC.t. (cJJ . .l J.• . (c). Snch a., 11a~rificial ritea, gifts, acts of ·charity, ,pilgrimagt>, service undet· !3-llf\\ or preceptor. • (d).  Such ns diamonds, rubies, and the like.  (e).  Su\:h ·aa walking and the like.  (/.)  Either by self toa·ture o\.· torturing other creatures.  (g)  Fi-om Lagna, the Moori =and the Sun~  4. Jf such yoga planet (a) occupy (b) A friendly sign, a pea-son will acquit-e wealth (in the dasa.or antardasa pea-iod of such planet) througll a friend. If such yoga. planet occupy an inimical sign, the person will get wealth through bis enemy ; and if such planet oocupy laisown house, the person will get wealth by means of his bo11se. If, when the Sun l;appens to be the yoga planet, he occupy his exal• . tat.ion sign, tbe pe1·son will acquire wealth by his own powers. If (at the time of birth) powerful benefic planets occupy the 1 I th house, the lagna or the 2nd house, the person will acquirewealth in various ways (c). • N·otcs. • (a). That is either the planet which occupies the l0tb house from the ascendant or the Moon 01• the planet which is the lord of the Navamaa. occupied by the lord <1f the 10th house from Lagoa, the '.MOQnand thj) Sun. (b). At the time of birth. Cc). ln otl)er words he will prosper well whatever may be ihe CLVOQationhe may cho,se to follow. CHAP'J'Elt :XI. O~ RuA. YOGA.on THII B•BTJIor K1Nas. 1. According to the Yavauas a person born when three u1· more malefio planets are in theh· exaltation signs Digitized by Google CH. IJ.} .EBfHAT JA.TAXA. HS.beoomes ll tyrannical l:ing (a). Accordiog"to Jeevnaarmb. if such planets be malefio a person will never beeome 11, ling (b). Notes. (11). H three or more planets ooonpying their exal.tation signs be benefic, the person becomes a good king; if borh benefio and ma.lefiu·ho will become both a good aud a bnd king. {ll)~ Aocordiilg to 1.eev.asarma, such a person becom:es rioh and po"erful bo.t not a king. Varha Mihira ia of the opinion or the Yavanas. 2. Of the:fou.r planet.a, Mars, Saturn, the Sun, and Jupi.ter, by all the four or any three of them occupying exalt.a._ tfon signs while each of the planets occupies the Lagoa, lhe number of Bajayogas is 16. .Again, of the same foor pla.nets by any two or by any one ooou.pyiog exaltJation signs aad in each case, by eaoh of the planets occupyiog the. Lagoa. while the Moon occupies sign Cancer, the number of na.jayogaa is also 16. Notes. 8.2 &j11yogas.are mentioned in this stanza., A per.son born under auy one 0£ them becomes a king : suppose all the i planets-Mars, Saturn, the Suu and Jupiter-to occupy their exnltation signs at the same timf'; by any ono of au.oh signs being the ucendaot the number of Baj11.yog1111 obtained is 4. Again, of the same 4 planets there are 4 groups, each of three planet$! tbna (l) Ma~, Satnm and> t.he Sao,. (2) Marl', &turn and Jupiter,. (3) Mars, the 81111 and Jupiter, (4) Satol'n, the Sun and Jupiter. In t'ho cneu of eaob grour,. by all tile three planet.a occupying theil· ex11l• tation signs and by each of such sigus being the 1i::iing sign,. the number or Ruj_ayogua obtained is 3 ; there being -It Digitized by Google BRIRAT JA'l'.Ul'A, [CH~ 11. 11uch groups the number of Rajayogaa oMained from tliem all is 4X8 01· 12. Adding tllis to the 4 yogas-already ob,. t.ained we ge, the first lfi yogas mentioned in the te~t. Agaio, of the same -l planets, there are 0.,groups eaoh of 2 planets na follows(\) M1u·a and Saturn, (~0 Mara and the Sun, (a) Mars and Jnpitor, (4) Satotn and the Sun, (5) Saturn and Jupiter and (6) the' Su.n a.od Jupiter. In the case of eaoh group by both the planets occupying their extlltation signs And by ea.ch of saQb ,igna beiog tbe. rising.r,ign, the number of Rajnyogaa obtained is. 2. There being 6 such groups, the number of yogas obtained Crom them all is 6>.<2 or U.. 11) each of the~ 12. cases, tl,le Moon occupies. sig1,1Cancer. Again, of-the same • planets, by their seve .. rally being in their. e::s:.altation signs, wbile snob sign is also. tbe ri;1dng sign, t}:ie number of ~ajayogas obtained is 4i..Io each, of t~08t) 4 cues, tbe Moon oc;oapies sigu Oancer. Add.ing these 4 rogas to the 12. yogas already obtai.ned Wtl gefJ. the. second 1.6 yogas mention.ed {n the text. 8·. The.L,-goaor the 'Moon being in VargottaJDfl posi:. tions, of all. the planets,. e::s:cepUog the Moon, by the several ~onpfi of four, five and si~ pla.net11 aapeoting the Lagna or..the .Moon, th!) n~mb~r of yogas obtah:ied is 2.2:. ::tl.otes. 'l'be si'X plunets are, the Sun, Mars, Mercury Jupiter,. Venus and Satu1·n, Of thJ?se ihere ore 16 groupe eacb. oi 4 planets as. follows.: · (1) 'fhe Sun,. Mars, Mercury·, Jupiter, (2)  ,,  ,,.  ,,  Venus ..  (3):  ,,.  ,,.  .,.  Saturn.  (4)  ,,.  "  Jupite:v,  Venus.  (5)  :•  ..,  ,..  Saturn.,  (6)  ,.  "·'  Vena.a,  ,11  Digitized by Google OH, U] DlllIAT JATAKA. lU ('l) The Sun, Mercury, Jupitep., Venus. (8) ,, Saturn. '"" (9) ,, ,, Vena.,<1, " (10) Jupiteli, '"" " (11) Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, '12) ,, ,, ,,, Saturn,. (1~) ,, ,, Venus,. ,, (14) ,, Jupiter ,, ,. (15) Mercury, •• ,, n Again, of the same 6 planets t.here &1'8 sill: groups taoh orflve planets as loUowa : . • (1) The Son. Mal's, Mercury, Jupiter,. Venn11. (2) ,, ,,. ,.. 11. Saturn. (8) ,, ,, ,, Venus ,, (4) ,, ,, Jupiter ,... ,, ( 5) ,, ~roury ,, ,, ,, ( 6) Mars, ,, ,, ,, 1, All the 6 planets form again • into one group.. 'rhos •here are 22 group!!, By the planets of. each group aspeo.ling the rising aigo iu its V:11.rgothamaposition, the numbe11.of· yogas obtained is 22·; and by their aspeotiag thi, ?®on in its V argutham" position, the number of yogas obtained is again 2e. Accor.ding to Mandavya, by: eaoh of the 12 signs from Ari~ being. either the rising sign or the.sign oooupiecl by the Atooni-nthe oaae 0£ each yoga,. the nwnber of yo-. gas obtained is 44.X.12 or 528, 4. When Suum occupies sign-.Aquruiua, •he Sun. sign, Aries,. the Moon sign Taurus, M.eroury-aig.n Gemini,. Jupiter sign. Leo, and Mai'8 sign Scorpio,. a peraon born, becomes,a king,when t.he riafog sign is .A.quuins.or.-when. it. is Arie. or when it is Taurtltl•.· Again, when Satutn oecupies sig-o Libm, t.be Moon. 1ign. Taurus,.th~ Snn an.d Merc11ry: sign. Virgo,, Venu, sig!)I Digitized by Google 116 BBIUAT J.U-41r:A• [cs. 9• Libra, Mars sign Aries, and Jupiter sign Oancor, a person bo1·n becomes a king when the l'ising sign is Libra or-when it is Taurus. 5 When Mura occupies sign Caprioorn, the S1tn· and the Moon sign· S11gittari, Saturn sign Capricorn, and whim ihe risiog sign is also o~priooro, n. person born beoomes.a . king. • A.gain whtn tb,t,i:Uliug sign i1 C.aprioorn a.nuwhen 'Mara. and the Moon ooonpy it, and when the Sun oooupiea. sign 811gittari,a person born becomes a king, Agaiu when Aries is the rising sign and w.ben the Sun occupies it, when Saturn a.n.d the Moon occupy sign Libra and Jupiter occnpienign S11gittari,a person. becomes a king .. 6. When the 1·isiogsign is T1lu1·11a and the Moon occu..pies it, when the Sun occupies sign Leo, Jupiter sig:·n Scropio. and Satar~ sign Aquarius a person born becomes a king. A.gain, when the rising sign is Oaprio.orn, and whe11 Saturn occupies it, and when ·,he Moon occupies the Srd house, Mara ti1e 6th house, Mercury the. 9th house, and Ju.piter the 12.th house, a person born becomes a vh!tuous and famous kiog. 7. When the Moon a11di J'.upite1 oca11py sign Sagittari;, and when Maa·s ()('Cupies the first half of Caprioorn, a person· bron becomes a. king when Pi,ces is the rising sign and Venus occupies it or when Virgo is rising sign and. Mercury occu-. pies it •. .Aguin,. when frbe rising sign is Virgo anclwhen Mercary ecupiea. it, when Mara and Saturn occupy: the 6th house,. whenthe .M.oon,Jupiter and Venus oooupy the 4th.house, a; person born becomes a king. 8. When Pisces is the rising sign, and the Moon occu~ pies it,. and when Aqua11ias, Caprieorn a.nd Leoare respee-.Digitized by Google CB, lJ.] lJnlBJ.T JA'l'.llCA, 117 tively oooupied by Saturn, Mins, aud the_ Sun; a person born becomes a king. Ag"in, when Mars occupies sign Aries and Jupiter i.dgn Cancer, a person born becomes a king when Aries is tbe rising sign, also when Oaucer is the rising sign. 9. When Cancer is the rising sign and Jupiter OCCD• pies it, and when the Moon, 'Yeoos and Mercury occupy sign 'l.'autos and the Sun sign Aries, a person . bo1·n beoomes a powerful king. • 10 When Capricorn • is the rising sign and Saturn pies i~ when the signs Aries, 0,lDcer and Leo are ocoo• pied by t.heir lords and when Gemini and Libra are respeo• tively occupied by Mercury and Venus, a person born be" comes a famous king. 11. When Virgo is the rising sign, and Mercury ocou• pies it, whekl Venus oocnpies tign Gemini, the Moon and Jupi\er; occupy sign Pisces, and Mars and saturn occup7 sign.Capricorn, a_person _born becomes a King. .. • 12. Persons born under the various yogas described a.bove,.though they may be born in low families will be.come kings. If such persons l\re born in a king'it family• they will doubtless • become kings. We shaU now proceed to describe certain• yogas, pet·sons born under which will become kiogs if they belong to a king's family and will become rich if ot berwise, • 13, When three or .more plaueta are powerful and occupy either their houses or exaltation signs or . their Moolat1ikona signs, a person born becomes a king if be belongs to a king's family, Again, when fi1e or more planets are powerful and occupy their houses or exaltatiou signs o~ their Moolatri• ~ona signs $ person born becomes a kiug evo11if he be born Digitized by Google BKJBU IA.TAICA. i'n a low-family. It in eithet case;the :number or powerful , planets be less than three or ilve, the persona described above will_ not be'come kings bttt will beco:me onl)' rich. i4. When A1·ies is the 1·iaiog sign and the Sun and Moon occupy it, w\i·e11 Mara occupies sign Capricorn. Saturn sign Aqoal'ins, and Jupiter sign i:3agittari, a person born beoomea a king, if he belong to a king', f11mllyl and • will ~m·e only rich if otherwise. Notes. According to another reading, the Sun is made to oocupy sign lleOaud the yoga remain& the same ln t>ther respects. lo. When Venus occupies the 4th house, and when &uoh bouse is bis own, when the Moon occupies the 9th house, and when the other planets oconpy the Srd, Jst and 11th houses, a person born becomes a king, ir he belong to a king's family •n·clonly rioh if otherwise, Notes. As Venne is said to be in his Swakahetra he might be either is sign Tau1·us or in sign Libra. 1.'he La.goa must therefore be either sign Aquarius or sign Cancer respec.tively. As the Moon ia said to be in the 9th house, he occu• pies sign Libra in the former case, and sign Piaoes in the lntter, and as the other plants are said to occupy the 3rd, lat and 1Uh houses frorn Lagoa, these houses are signs Aries,. Aquarius u.ud-Sagittari in the one caao, and Virgo, C11uoer,and T~~!USin ·thtoth~r. Thu~ 2 yogq are referred to in· this atunztt • . ;-.':·: -r 16. When Meronry is powerful aod occupies the rising· sign,(a) when a benefic planet (b) occupies the &th house(c) aod when the otbe1· planets(d)oocnpy the 9th, 2nd, Digitized by Google CJi, 11.l 3rd, 6th, lOtb,and 11th houses (e), ~. penoil hornbecomesa virtuous king if he beloilg to a king'5 i'amiiyand only rich if otherwise. Note& {a). Thia may be any one of the 19 signa. (b). This· is either Jupiter or Venus. (o). The 4.th huuse according to adifl'erent reading. (d). When one or more of \he other planela according to commentator. (e). One of these ho1lle8 according to commentator. 17, When Taurus is the rising sign, and the Moon occupies it, when Jupiter occupies the 2nd house, Saturn the 6th house, and the other planets the 11th house, a person born becomes a king if' he belong to a kiog'a family, and only rich if otherwise .. Again, when Jupiter occupies the 4th houae,_the Sun and the Moon'occupy the 10th house, when Saturn occupies the Lagna (a) and when the other plaJieta occupy the 11th house, a person born becomes a king if he be born in a king's family, and only rich if otherwise. Notes. (cs.) Thia may be any one oithe lt signs according to commentator. 18. When the Moon ooe)u'pies the 10th house, Saturn the 11th house, Jupiter the rising aign, Mercury and Mars the 2nd house, and the Sun and Venus oconpy the 4th honae, a person born becomesa king if be belong to a king's fa.mily, and only rich if otherwise. Again, when Mars and Saturn occupythe 1-ising sign, when the Moon occupies the 4th house, Jupiter the 7th house, V enae the 9th house, tlib Sud the 10th house; and 16 Digitized by Google 120 JIBIB.lT J.lT.lK.l, [cs. ll' Mercury the 11th house, a person1 born becomesa king if he belong to a king's family, and only rich ·if otherwise. 19. Of the planets producing a Raj11,yogaeither in the Antardasa pe1·iods of those which occupy the 10th house or the Lagoa (a) or in that of the most powerful planet (b), a person c,bt.ains kingdom and he. loses it and courts the frieudship of another king in the Aot.ardasa periods ol the planets occupying inimical or depression aigus.{c). Notes. (a). If there be pl11nets both io the Lagoa and in the 10th house or:if there be several planets in either, then in the Antardasa period of the most powerful of them. (b), If there _be no planets both in Lagoa and in the 10th house, • (o), lf such pianets be powerful the king will lose his kingdom permanently, and if they be not powe1·ful,he will 1·ecover it. by the help of his allies. 20. When JapUer, Venus and :Mercury occupy the rising sign, (a) when Saturn occupies the 7th house and the Son the 10th house, a person born. will live in great comfort and luxury. (b) Again, when. powerful benefic signs form the Kend1'88 and mn.lefi.cplanets occupy maletio signs, a person born be.comes rich and the chief pf hunters and 1-obbers, ' Notes. (a). ~he riaing sign is Aries according to com.mentator, The interpretation given of this portion of the text is objected to by some on the ground that when. Venus and Mercury (the infe1'.iorplanets) occapy the rising sign the Sun cannot occupy the 10th house-a place more than 60 degrees removed from them. For the greatest elongations of the two planets from!the Sun are respectively 47 and 29 • Digitized by Google I.. OB. }2,]. Bllllu.T SATil.&, degrees. _Accordingly the following_interpretation is pro.posed:.,, Ir the rising aign be the hooae of .Jnpiter, Ven111 or Veroury" • • Bhatt& Utpala, the commentator. while granting the validity oftbe objection, says, that the interpretation objec-· ted to has the suppot·t of Garga whom• he quutes. Asimilar. remal'k applies to the Vajra and other yogas described in stanza 5 or the next Ohspter, and in stanza 6. or the same, Varaba Mibira while admitting the impossibility of the yoga, says that his task is simply to state the views of the , ancient writers and nothing more. Yid, notes to-stanza 6, Chapter XII. (b).· 'l.'hoogh he may be poor. (c). This portion of the te:d is interpreted by some as rollows: " When powerful beneflo planeta OCOllP1 the Kendru" But this interpretation is opposed to Garg&whom the commentator quotes. CHAPTER XII. 1. ON NABBASAYoou. 1. nine, ten and eight, multiplied respectively by three, three and Coor give the sums of the numbers of the first two, the firsit three, and all the four groups of Nabhasa yogas (a). The Yavanu treat extftnsively of one thousand and eight hundred of such yogas (b). We aball here sum.marize them. Notes. (a). Curiously enough the author adopts a rather circuitous method of stating the numbers of the several gronps of Nabhasa yogas. The statement amounts to an AlgebraiOl!-1problem : find 4 numbers such that. the let+ t.he Digitized by Google lH 2Q~=9X3=27.1:st+2od+8rd.-;-l0.X8=SQ.la~+2nd+Srd+. 4th=8 X 4.=82. It is clear that the number of the lut group =82-80=!. ~he ii~m~r of tqe Sr"-gro11p=S0-27=8, Th.e number of1 the first ~nd second Efl'O'IJPis given ~ 27. AoCQrding to the commentator, the 1st group oona!11ts of 20 yogas and the 2qd of 7.In other words what the a,othoi: wants.to say is briefl1 this-The Nabbtu1" yogas consist o( 4,groups as follow3: ·. . . Akrit,i. yogits 20 ; Sankhya yog&fl 7 ; Ael'a:ya yogas, 8 ; ~04 Dll,1~ yoga•. 2~ (b). Vids note at the end of the Chapter for the particulars of the 1800 N1tbbasa yogas. (o). The author eay11,that his 32 yog~ contain the 1800 yogl\s of the "'f:'avanas. 2. .According'.to Satyachariyar if all the pla~eta occupy (a) the movable, fixed or common signs, the yogas &re re!Jp&ctivelyknown as Ra.iju, Moe1Lla, and Nala. and. these three form the group of Asraya yogas. Again according to Parasara, if the benefio planets (6) occupy the Kt'ndraa \C)' the yoga is known as Srikor Mala; and if malefic planets (d) occupy the Kendras (s) the yoga is known as Sarpa, These two form th, group of Dala yogQ.S. No~~ (~). Q~e.oi;-.twq or.three or all the fo11r.of the signs. A~q,·di,ng to some tJ)~. planets o~g~t to oooupy all the four •ips., Tbia .. is OP,P~4to Gal'g'f,1 (b). Viz., Mercury, Jopi~er and Venus according to Garga. (c). Three of the Kendras, while there are no ·malefic planets in auy of the budi-a. houses according to Bada.rayana. (cl), Vi11:-The San, Mars and Sat'1rn according to Gar~/ • • Digitized by Google 128 (e). Thr~ o[ the ~endru, while there are no benefio planets in. any; of the kendra. be>usea according to Bada.ra1,ana. 3. Other Astrologers say that the Asra.ya yogRS, ar& identical.with.tbeYsva {a), Abja (b), Vajra (e), A11d11ja (d), GolR(t), and the. like yogas (/), and I.hat. when the effects of planets occupying the kendras are described the effects of Dala yogas are also deeoribed and they produce no separate eft'eoti,(g). Notes. In this stanza the author explains the reason why. certain Astro!ogers have failed to treat of the Asraya and Dafa.yogas in their work!!, • (a), (b), (e). Vide stanza 6. (a). Vida stanza 4. (e). J"ide stanza IO. (/), The like yogas : suoh as Sakata (stanza. 4), Kedara, Sula and yuga (all stanza 10), The A.sl'l\yayoga." may be these aud mny not be these; hence the author bas deemed it advisable to treat them sep11_rately.For im,tnnce, if all planets occupy signs Gemini and Sagitta.ri-2 of the common sign',1-when one of these is nlso the ris;ng sign, the yoga is known both as Vnjra.aud N11la; bo~ if any other sign be the rising sign, it is not a Vajrayoga but only a Nala yoga. (g). As regards the. Da.la. yogM, it is said that other writers have descdbed the effect.a of beoefic and of malefic planet.a oooupying the Kendras and as these. are also the effects of the two Dalil yoglls they have omitted to treat of them separately ; Lhe authe>r treats of these sepa.1·ately in. ordf\r to make it known that the twe> are Nabhasa yoga.a and as such their. eft'~ta., are fel~. tbroogpout life, .("id" Stanza. 19), \ Digitized by Google 124 Lo11.11. 4. Ir all the planets occupy any two adjacent Kendras, the yoga is known as Gada (a), If they. all occupy the ascendant llnd the 7th house, the yoga is known as Sakata. If all the plani,ta occupy tbe 4tth and the 10th honse the yog" is known as Vihaga. lf all the planets occupy the asoendant, the 6th and 9th houses, the yoga.is known as Sringataka and if all the planets oocupy other triangular houses the yoga is known as Hala (b), Notes. The author now proceeds to describe the 20 Akriti yogas. 5 of tham are described in this stanza. (a). This may be in 4 ways: All the four planets may occupy (1 ), the 1st an~ the 4th houses, (~), the 4th and 7th houses (3), the 7th and the 10th bouaesand {4)~the 10th IUld the 1st aouae. The Yavanas ooneider these~ as four dis.tinct yogas and· oall them reapeotively aa Gada, Sankbat Vibhuka and Dwaja. (Vide note at the end of the Olaapter.) (b). Thia may be in three ways : a.11the planets may occupy, (1), the 2nd, 6th and 10th houses, (2), the Sd, 7th and 11th houses, (SJ the 4th, 8th and 12th houses. l>. If the benefic planets occapy the ascendant '!-nd the 7th house while the ma.lefto pla.neta occupy t.he 4th and 10th houses the Yoga. is known as Vajra ;. and if the reverse be the oa.se(a) the yoga ia known aa Ya.va. AgAin, if all the planets occapy the four Kendras the yog11, is known as Kamala, aud if they oocnpy the foar Panapbara (b) or the fonr Apoklima (o) houses, the yoga ia kuown as Vapi. Notes, In this stanza, •i more Akriti yogas are described. (a). That ia if the malefic planets ocoupy the asoen.dant and the 7th house while the benefic planets oocupy the 4Lh and 10th houses. (b). Tha.L is the 2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th houses. (c). Tbat is Lhe Srd, 6t,h, 9th and lll~h houses. Digitized by Google ea. 12.] HIB&T IATilA• 125 ,6. I have deaoribed the Vajra and other (a) yogAs adopting the view or former writers (b). How can Mercury and Veuus occupy the 4th sign from the Sun (o)1· No\es. (a). 'That is the Yava yoga And the yoga mentioned in the bt>ginning of stnDD 20, or the Chapter on Rajayogn, (b). Maya, Yavana, Oarga and others. (o), AccoJ"dingto Mr, Sunda.reswara Sronty of Tl'ivadi, the Vajra and Yava yogas refer to the positions of the pla.nets in the Bbava Ohakra and not to their positions in their Rasi Ohakra as supposed by Varaha Mihira. He is there.fore of opinion that Garga and other writen have not el'l'ed in treating of these yogas as posaible ones, This we shall now expluin : Varaha Mihira says " How can Mercnry and Venus occupy the 4th ,ip from the Sun" The word used in tlie text ia Bhavana which means a sign of the Zodiac (tiide stanza 4, Chapter I). If the V "jra and Y ava yogas re.fer to the positions of the planets in the Rui Cbakra then Varaha Yibira. is right in declaring that the ancient writers have erred, but not if the yogas refer to the positions of the planets in the Bhava Chakra. Indeed in "11 yogas where the positions of the planets are stated with reference to particular Bhavaaor houses from the ascendant, they refer to Bhava, Chakra. As it is somewh,t tadious to construct this Chakra (table), most of the astrologers confound it with the ot.her Chu.kra and wrongly apply aU yogaa to the Rasi Chakra. This is one or fruitful sources of erl·or in astrologi.cal predictions; we shall now expluin wha• is meant by BhAva Ohakra. For the process of constructing it, the reader is ref erred to the Appendix at the end of the Book. Both Raai and Bhava Chakras are divisions of the ecJip.tic ; the former is division into 12 equal parts and the lat.te1· ' Digitized by Google BIUBAT UT.lli. [ou. 12. i' division into 12 unequal parts depending upon thb lati.tude of the place. Bhasknra Oharyar defines Bhava Ohakraas follows in his Gola Adhyaya : QQJI q11·-~ a,,.,11f1"lfflj..-ii, 11tf411f-.~Qs~11eai 1f111111n11fcrcfAI~~a " The point where the ecliptic cuts the ho1izon in the ea,t is known as eastern or rising Lagoa, and in the tDBlt as the western or settiug Lagnl\, and the points where the meridian of the place cute the ecliptic are known as :M:11.dhyaor middle fognas.-The 10th and fth Lagnas." These 4 points are respectively the middle points of the let, 7th, l 0th and 4th Bhavas. The two points of trisec.tion of the dist11nce between the middle points of the lat and 4th Bb11v11sare respectively the middle points of the 2nd and 3rd Bhavas. The two points of trisection of the distance between the middle poiots of the 4th aud 7th Bha\'as are respectively the middle points of the oth and 6th Bhavas, The two points of t1·isection of the Jistance betweeu middle points of the 7th and 10th Bhavas are the middle points of the 8th and 9th Bhavas. And the two points of trit1eotion of the distance between the middle points of the l 0th and 1st Bhavas are the· middle points of the lltb and 12th Bhavas. Thus we have obtained the middle points of the 12 Bhavas. Now if we bisect these twelve divisions of the ecliptic, the apace between the two . points of bisection immediately on both aides of the middle point of each Bhava will form a Bhava. Digitized by Google cu. 12.) BBIBA.T JA.TA.EA• 127 Now aathe ecliptic is inclined to the equator by about 28 degrees, the pole or the ecliptic will alway.sbe removed from the pole of the equator by about 23 degree'! and will detici-ibe round it a circle in the course of &i ob dny. Bo that t,very day the plane of tbs ecliptic me1·idian will coincide with the plane of the meridian of the place twice. Now the point where th" ecliptic meridian bisect.is the eclip.tic, is known in Astl'onomy M t.he nona-gesimal point, Oall this poinf;N. 01111the point where the meridian outs tlie. ecliptic M. and the points whel'e the bol'izon c·uta t.be eclil)-:.tio in tbs east. and west as B aud W respectively. W-----------------E M. N • So that N E::: N W =90 dttgreea = 8 signs, and M E is always 8 bhavaa AndM W is also abhavas; M being the middle point of the 10th Bbava. Now when the plane of the ecliptic meridian coincides with the plane or the meridian of tue piace, N coincides with M and therefore N .M • vanishes aud the Rasi and Blmva Ch"kras coincide. This will occur \.Wice a day. At other limes they will difft1r. Now iu the higher lati• tnde'4 the angle between the two meridian lined inc, eases. V'(idi, Spheri~l Trigonometry). 'fherefore the distance NM also incrd&&es aud MW accordingly dimiuishes and it. may even become less thlln 4,7 aud 27 degre011, and it never.theless couf;aina S bhavas. So that it is possible for Mer· cury and Venus to occupy M (the 10th bbav11) while the Sun occupies W (the 7~b bhava), i. e., Venus and Mercury may occupy the 4,t,lt bbava from t.ha Sun. So that Garga. and otb .. r writ.era have not .erred if the Vajra and Ya,a yogas ~efer to the positions of the planets in the Bhava Cbakra. • 7. If all the planets occu;,y the four signs (a) from . the ascendant, the yoga iii knowu as Yupa; if they lU Digitized by Google 128 BBIHAT IATAU. [OH. 12. ocoopy the four signs (b) from the fonrtb house, the yoga is known as Jehu or Bana; if they occupy the fonr signs (c) from the seventh house, the yoga is known as S&kti ; aod iCt~ey occupy the four signs from the 10th house the yoga is known as Danda. Notes. In this aw.nu the author describes four more .Akriti yogas. (a). That is tbe ascendant and the 2nd, 3rd and 4th houses. (b). That ia the 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th honses. (c). That· is the 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th houses. (d). That is the 10th, 11th and 12th houses and the ascendant. 8. If, as before, all the planets oconpy the seven sip (a) from tlie aaoendaot the yoga is known as Nao ; if they occupy the seven signs (b) from the fourth house, the yoga is known as Kuta : if they occupy the seven signs (c) from the seventh house, the yoga is known as Ohhatra ; and if they ocoupy the seven signs (d) from the tenth house the yoga is known as Chapa. .A.gain if all the planet.a oooupy the seven houses beginning. from a Pan.phara or Apoklima house, the yoga is known sa .Ardha.Chandra (eJ. Notes. • • In this atanza, the author desoribes 5 more .Akriti . yogas. (a). That is, the lat, 2nd, Srd, 4th, 5th,' 6th and 7th houses. (b). That is from the 4th to the 10th house. (c). That is from the 7th to the 12th house al)d the ucendant. • Digitized by Google OJI, )2,]  BBill.t.T  1ATil.l.  .  ;,  (d).  That is from the 10th to the 12th house and  from the ascendant to the "h hoase. (e) As there are 4 Panaphara and 4 Apoklima houses the Ardha-Chandra yogas are of 8 kinds: viz., all the planets may oc-cupy (1) from the 2nd to the 8th house, (2)~ from the Srd to the 9th house, (8), from the 5th to the 11th honse, (4), from the 6th to the 12th house, (5), from the 8th to the 2nd house, (6) from the 9th to the 8rd house, (7), from the 11th to the 6th house, (8), from the 12th \o the 6th house, 9. If t-he planets (a) oooupy the six alternate signs (b) beginning from tbe:2od house the yoga is known as Sama• dra, and if they occupy the six alternate signs (c) begin.•ning from osoondant the yoga is known as Obakra. Thu the Akrita yogas have been described briefly. Notes. In this stanaa the author describes th9 remaining2 (out of 10) Akriti yogi!,&• (a). All the seven planets. (b). That is, the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 12th houses, (e) That is the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th housea. 10, If all the planets occupy any seven signs the yoga ia known aa Vallaki ; if they occupy any six signs, the yoga is known as Damini ; if they occupy any &vtt signs iii is known as Paaa; if any four signs, iii is known as Kedar&; if any three signs it ia known as Sala ; if any two signs, it ia known as yoga; and if they;ocoupy a single sign, the yoga is known as Gola. When any of tbeso Saukhi& yogas are n\ the same time any otber Nabhasa yog11P, tbey al"e to be treated aa belonging to the latter class (a). • Digitized by Google 180 B&IB.lT .J.lT.t.l[.l. [en. 12. Notes. (a). For instance the Gada, Sakata and Vihaga. yog,.s described in stanzl\ °'are to be treated only as aoch anil not as Yug" yogas described in this stan'JA; the Sl'ing11taka and Bal~ yog11S describitd in stanza 4 are to be trellted only 11s suoh and not as 8ol11oyogas described in this stanza. Again, \he Vajr", Yl\va, K~ml\l& and Vapi yogas described in stanza 5 as well "8 the Yup", Isho, B_akti and Danda yogas described in staozl\ 7 shall not be confounded with the Kadana yogas desul'ibed iu this stan:a"• Aud so on. 11.. A person bo1·0 nuder a R11iju yoga will he jealous of the wealth of others, will proceed to foreign lauds and will be food of travelling; a person born under a Musala yoga will be respectable, rich, and will engage in various undertakings; and a person born under a Nala yoga will be of def-,ctive organs, settled viewd, rich and skilled in work. Again, a person born under a Srik yoga will live in comfort and luxury, and on~ born under a &rpa yoga, will be mis-,rable in ·many ways. Notes. Io this stan1a, the author describes the effects of the three Aaraya yogas and of the two Dala yogas. 12. If the Asl'aya yogas partake at the same time of the character of other yogas they should be treated as the latter; otherwise they produce the . effects described for them. Notes. This subject has alteady been discussed in stanza s. For imitAnoe, if a Riljj11 yog~ or a Musa.la yoga or a Nala yog11 partake of the nature of a Kamala yoga. (stanza 5) it shoold be treated as the la.Lter. • 13. A person born under a Gada yoga will perform Sl\e1·ificialrites, will.be rich, and will ever 1,e engag~ in the Digitized by Google 131OR• 12.) BRIDlT JATAJU .• acquisition of wealth; a person born under a 8ak2'ta yoga will Jive by means of CArts, will be afflicLed with dise118e&, and will have a mean wife; a person born under a Vih11ga yoga will live by o"rrying messages, will be fond of travels, and "'ill c·,use qu11rrt1ls; a person born under a Sringa.taka yoga wiHbe happy in the latt1>r end of life (a) and a person born under a Hala yoga will till lands. Notes. In this stanza the author describes the effects of Ii Akriti yogas. (a). 'l'he word in fibe text is '' Cbira Sukht" This is interpreted by somt\ to mean "h~ppy for a long time." This interpretation is opposed to G,1rga. I"-· A pel'son born under a V11.j1-ayoga will be happy both at the beginning and end or life, will be a genoraJ. favol'ite and will)e bold in.6ght. A person born in a Yava yoga will be powerful, and will be happy at the middle of ife. A pel'son bol'D under a P"dma (Kamala) yoga. will be or gre"f; renown, will be gre11tly huppy and poSRessed of many at.tninment.s. A person born under a V npi yoga will live in poor comfort for a long time, will bury bis wealth under gl'ound and will be a miser. Notes. In this stanza, the author describes the effects of 4, more A.kriti yogas. 15. A person born under a Y npa yoga will be liberal in gift; and will perform high sao1i6cial rights. A person born under a Batta (Ishu) yog" will indulge in toriure, will be a jailor and will make arrows. A person born under a S:,kti yoga will engnge in deeds disgraceful to his rank in life, will D'>t be skilled in work, and will be without money and comfort. A person born under ". Danda y(\ga will be Digitized by Google BBIDA.T IA.TAli• [OIi. u. separnted from persons of bis affection (a) and will earn hia livelihood by the lowest of means, viz., se"itude. Notes. In Lhis stanza the author describes the effects of 4 more Akriti yogas. (a). Sons and the like. 10. A person born uniier a Nau yoga. will be of wide.spreRd fame, happy only now and then, and will~bea miser. A person born under a Kuta. yoga will indulge in lies, and will be a.jailor. A pe1·son born unde,:a Chbatra yoga will make his people happy and will live in comfort in the latter end of life A person b.orn under a Chapa yoga will delight in fight and will live in comfort buth at the beginning and end of life. Notes. The effects of 4 mol'e Akriti yogas are described in this stanza. 17. A person bol'll under an Ardha-Chandr& yoga will be a general favol'ite, of agreeable person and be respected by all. A person born under a Samudra yoga will be as prosperous as a king and will live in comfort. A person born under a Chakra yoga will have his feet illumined by the las~re of the gems in the crowns of kings falling pros. trate before him by way of respect. and submission (a). A person boru in a Vallaki yoga will be skilled in work and will delight in musio and dunce. Notes. In this stanza the author describes the effects of the three Ak1·iti yogas and of the first Sankhya yoga. (a). In other wo1·ds he will become an emperor or kiug of kingl!. 18. A person born nnder a Damini yoga will be liberal in gift, will delight, in helping others and will possess mauy cows. A person born in a Pasa yoga will, with hia servanta Digitized by Google 138CB. 12.] BBJHAT UTAJl:l, and kinsmen,_earn wealth by proper means. A person born under a Kedara yoga will till lands, And by doing good deeds, will be useful to others. A person born under a Sula yoga will be bold in fight, will receive • blows and will be fond of money {<i) but will be poor. Notes. In this eta.nzathe author describes the effect.a of l more Sankhya yogas. (a). " Will be fond of torture " according to some ether reading. 19. A person born under a Yuga yoga will be poor and will act in contravention 0£ V~io rules. A person born under a G-ola yoga will be poor, dirty, ignorant, addicted to low deeds, uriskilled in work, and will ever he wandering from place to place (a). 'l'hus have been been deecribed the several Nabhasa yogas with their effects. These effects . are felt throughout a man's life. Notes. In this stansRthe ~ft'eots of the re1011.ining two Sankhy" yogas are described. • (a). For bare sobsistence,aecording to commeutator. (b). Except in the case of Vajra and other yogas (11ids stanZ!l14) whose effects will be felt, as sta.te.d, in particular •periods of a person':1 life. So that wherever no periods a.re mentioned the effects will be felt t.hrouihont life. Notes :-Dala Yogas will ooiuoide neitlaet· with Asraya yogas nor with Akriti yog11.9. 'l'hey might coincide with Sankhya.yogas-with ~he Vallaki, the D11mioi, the Pasa, or the Kedara yogas, in which case the yogas are to be treated as only •Dala yogas· and not. as S:1nkhya yogM. (Vids stan~ 10). Agaio, according to atRttza J2 if the Asr11ya yogas coincide with other yogas, they cease t"' be Asr11ys Digitized by Google }84 HID.AT .U.TAl:A, yogas and according to stanza 10 if the Sankhya yogas eoincide with other yogas, they o&l\Seto be'.Sankhya yogl\s, Now suppose .A.araya a11d Sankhya yogas to coii•oide with each other. Are they to be treated tut the former or as the. Jat~er 1 The commentator a,Lys that if the coiuoid,~nce referi to the KeJar", Sula, a11d Yuga yogas, the y<•gits are to be treated as Asraya yogas only; but. if it refer to the Goli. yoga, it is to be treated as 1;uoh aud not as an .Asrya yogn-otberwise there will be no room for Gola yoga at all• We ah11ll now explain bow the Y"vanas obtain '1800 Nabhasa yogas. .A.a stated in stanza 8, t.he Yavanas do not treat of the three A11raya yogas and the two J?ala yogi\&, They treat of 23 Ak1·iti yogas. and I:?7 S11nkhya yogas or 1? 0 yogas in all for a Lagoa; there being 12 Lagnas, the number of Nnbhasa yogas treated of by the Yavanaa is 12X 150= 1800. We shall explain these more fully. As explained in note (a) to st,anZf\4', the Gada yoga of the aot.hor-is treated of as 4, di1:1tioctyogas by the Xavanas. Adding these to the remainin)f 19 Akriti yogas, we get 213 Ak1·iti yogas as treate<! of by the Yavanas. Again, the seven Sankhya yogas of the ,-uthor are split into 127 Sankhya yogas (for a L•~gna) by the Yavanaa as follows: The first Saukhya yoga t.reated of by Varllha Mihh·a is known as Vallaki yoga according to which the 7 planets might oooapy any seven sigus. This may be in many ways; but the Y,Lvunas select only a few: RS enoh of tho seven planots might ocoapy the Lagna the number of yogns a111ler 1.bis division is 7. .Agaiu the 2nd Sa111thya yoga treated of by the author is one ucoonHug t.o which the 7 pliu,ets are said to occupy any six signs. This may be . in many ways; bot the Ya van~ selt'ct the following few: of the 7 planets 5 may occupy 6 hoases and two more may Digitized by Google CIJ. 18.] occupy the Lagna. These two m11oybe any. two of the seveo planets. 'l'be number of yogl\8 uoder this head will bu the number of combinations of 7 things . taken 2 together =1X{=21. Again, the 3rd SIL1lkhynyoga is one in which the seven pl1\nets occupy 5 houses. This 11111.y botbe in many ways; t,lie following nre selected:-' pl,mets occnpyiog 4 }1ouses and 8 more occupying the Lagna. These fibree may be any three out of the 'l planets-'fhe number of cases under this head is the nomber of combinations of 7 things taken 3 to6etber = i X .Xi=Sf>. The next Sankhya yoga of VarahA Mihira is similarly split by the Yavanaa into tXi-X-i,X.=85, and the next into {X!X.X{Xf= 21,and tb.e uext into }x;x;xtx.xf=7, and the last into {x~X.X.X.>'·?X-}=l. So tbattlteseveo Sankhya yogas are 11plit into 7+21 +35+3S+21+7+1= 127. These added to ~8 Akriti yogas give us 150 yogRs f01· a Lagoa or 1800 yogRS for the 12 Laguas. To find the number of combinations of n things taken r at a time, the reader is referred to the Lilavati of Bhaa.kam Obaryar or to the Ohhandas Sutra of Pingala or to Chapter 77,stanza 22 (notes) of the English Translatio11 of Brihat Bamhita or to the notes to stanza 4 of the next Chapter of this Book. CHAPTER XIII. ON CBANDBA (LuNAR) Yoo.u;. 1. The conduct, wealth, knowledge, intelligence 11.nd skill of a person will be poor, moderate or excellent accord.ing as the Moon occupies the Kendra, the P11napha.-a or the ·Apoklima houses from the Sun (a), nnd o.person will bo . rich and will 'Jh·e in comfort if the Moon occupy bis own Navamaa or an Atimitra Nav,unsa (b), providl'd sh~ is 17 Digitized by Google aauu.T UTJ.SA. [OB', 18, aapected by Jupiter if the birth occur 1,y day, and by Venus if the birth oocur by night. Notes• (a). .At the time of birth. In other words, a person will have very liLtle of these qualities if the Moon oocupy either the sign oocupied by the Sun or the 4th, 7th or 10th sign from . it. He • will have the11e qualities in a moderate degree iC the Yoon oconpy the 2nd, flth, 8th or 11th sign from the sign occupied by the Sun; and he will have these qnalities in a large measure, .jf the Moon ocoupy the Srd, 6th, 9th or 12th sign from the sign occupied by the Sun. (b). An Atimitra Navamea is a Navamaa of an Atimitra or a very friendly planet. 2, If the benefio planets (a) ooenpy the 6th, 7th and 8th houses from the Moon, the yoga is known as Adhi.yoga (b), A· person born in the yoga will become a gene.ral, a minister or a king (c) and will be in the enjoyment of great pleasures and wealth with subdued enemies and long life and f1-ee fl'om diseasei and fear. (a). These are Mercury, Jupiter and Venus. (b). The yoga is or 7 sorta according as the benefio planets occupy one or more of the three houses: (1), They might occupy all the three houses; (2), or tbe 6th and 7th . hou11es; (8) or the 6th and 8th; (i} the 7th and 8th, (5), the 6th; (6) the 7th; (7), the 8th houses from the. Moon. (c). .A.coording as· Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are weak,of moderate power, or of very great power according to Badarayana. In the Astrological work known aa Saravali, the Adhi yoga is classed with Raja yoga when the planets Mercury, Jupiter aod Venus are 11ot Astangata plaueta, nor aspected ·by maletio planets. Mandavya is of ihe same opinion . • Digitized by Google OB. 18.] :IBIB'AT IATAU. 187 3, Excepting the Sun if the other planets oooupy the 2nd, the ~2th, or both the 2nd and the 12th houses from the Moon, the yoga is . respectively known as Sunapha, Anapba or Durudhura; otherwise (a), the yoga ia known as Kemadruma by numerous writers. According to some(b), if the Moon occupy the Kendra. house from the ascen.dant or if the Moon be accompanied by a planet, the yo~ ceases to be a Kemadruma yoga. According to others (o) the three yogas, Sunapha, Anapha and Durudbura are re.fel'red to the Kendra. houses from the Moon (d); while again some others (e) refer the three yogas to the houses on both sides of the sign the Navama& of which the Moon occu.pies (/). But these views aro not considered as authori.tative. Notes. (a). Otherwise: i.e., if the 2nd, the 12th, or both the 2nd and the 12th houses from the Moon be not oooupied by planets-the Sun excepted. (b). Garga and Parasara. (c). Srntakeerti a.nd others. (d). That is, if the planets excepting the Sun occupy the 4th house from the Moon, the yoga is known as Suna.pha; if they occupy tbt? 10th house from the Moo~, the yoga ia known as A.napba, and if they occupy both the 4th and the 10th house f1·om the Moon, it is known as Dura.dhura and if the 4th and 10Lh honsea from the Moon be not oconpied by planets, the yoga is known an Kemadruma. ( e • 1 Jeevasarma. </), Suppose the Moon to ocoupy the Navamsa of • Sagittari in sign Aries. Now if the planets, excepting . the Sun and the Moon occupy the 2nd, or the 12th or both the 2nd and the 12th. houses from sign Sagittari the yoga ia respectively known as Suuapha, Anapha and Durudhura. Digitized by Google 138 [ ou. ~s. bat if these two bouaes, bo not so ocoupied ~be yoga is known as Komadruma. 4. The Sunapha and the A nt,pha yogas are e&oh of thirty-one aorta, and the Durudhura yog11,&are of one hun.dred and eighty sorts, as will be found to be the oase by forming series as desoribed in the role fot· finding the num.ber of oowbinatious of a given number of things. Notes. The rule for finding the nu111berof combinations of a given number of things iii only hinted at in the text, but not fully given. It is quoted in stanza 22 of Ct.apter 79 or the Brihat Samhitta. 'l'be rule is:." Beginning from unity, form a series by adding to.gether the first figure with the next and the sum wit:1 t,be next figua·e and so oo omit.ting on)y the last. From ihe series thus formed, form a fresh series simil,uJy, begiouiog from unity, and so on. The }11.Stterms of the 11everalse1·ies will give the number of oombinatione :required." Suppose there to be 7 substances. The igure& 1, 2, 8, 4, 5, 6, 'i, will form the first series. Obtain tbe 2nd series u follows: 1+2=3; 3+3=o; 6+4=10; 10+5 =IS; 15 f-6=21. The 2nd series therefore itd, :-t,6, IO, Jr,, 21• Obtain the 3rd sea-ies as follows: 1+3=4; 4+6=10; 10+10=20; 20+l~=S5. The Srd 11eries therefore is 1,4, 10, 20, 85. Obtain the 4th series as follows: l+-!=5; 5+10 =15; lo+20=S5. The 4th series theref~re is l,5,15, 85. Obtain the 5th series a.a follows: 1+5=6. t>+l5= 21. The 5th series therefol'e is 1, fl, 21. Obtain t.he 61h series as follows: J +6=7. The 6th aeries tl1erefore is l, 7. The seventh series 'is 1. The last terms of tho sev1:m series are, 7, 21, 85, 85, 21, 7, 1. These are reepeotively the number of combinatiom1 of seven things taken 1, 2, a. 4, S, ~ and 7 at a time. Bb11.Bkaril.Chariar gives a simpl~i.proceaa in his Lila.va.ti-a. work on Arithmetic. He sr.yF • Digitized by Goog I e 189en .. 13.] BRIRAT 1.6.TAKA, Form fractions with the numbers beginning froto the )&Rtnumber to unit-y for numerators an,1wit,h the nnmbers beginning from unity to the last number for denominators respectively. The number of combinations taken I, 2, S, 4, &e., at a time will respectively be the first fr11.etion, tho procluot of l~t two fraotionR, nf the first three fractions or of the lat foor fractfons, &c. Suppose, for in11t,anoe,tl,e number of things to be 7, 'fhen the fr11otions n.rs i, l, ., .,.,:, }. The number of combinations of 'l things taken one at a time=f::=1; 'l'aken two at a time=f X \=21, taken SAt a time=tXfXiX =85; taken 4oat a time=-lXJX-iX. =35; i11ken 5 at a time=f x.;.x{,x.x.::=21; taken 6 "ta time =-lx.;.x,..xfX.XJ=7; and ~ken 7 at a time =tXf X JX.X:-xf-X.,-=J. Now in the Snn"ph11 or Anapha yogM t,he 2nd or the 12th house from the Moon moy be oocupied by the five • planets from MRra either singly or two at a time or three or four or all 11t a time. The number required is the number of combinations of five things taken l, 2, 8, 4oand 5 together at a time. Thia is to be deduced from the following : t, f, ,, .,t· The number will be found to be s+10+10+s+1 =31. 'fake the CMe in whioh tbe 2nd house from the Moon is occupied by a single planet .i while it. tloea. so, the remaining four pl11nets may occupy the 12th house from the Moon 1, 2, 3 and 4oat a time. The number 0£ these will be the sum of the number of combinations of four things taken 1, 2, S and 4, together. This will be found to be 4,T 6 +4+1=15. So th11t for one of the five Suuaplm yogas we ,zet 15 Dnrudhum yogns. The·6ve Sunaplu, yog"s of one planet will therefore give 11s 5x H>=75 Durudhu,·n yog11s. Take one •>f the 10 SunHph& yogas of two plsnets from }bra to ~alum; the rem1iini11gS pla,wr.s m11y QConpy the Uth houtie from tbe .Moou,1, 2 and 3 at u t1me. 'l'he num-Digitized by Google HO JIRIBAT J.lTA.n. [OH, 18. bf.r required is the sum of the number of combinations of three thing» taken 1, 2 and S at a time. This will be found to be'StS+l=?. Combining these with the 10 Snnapha yog-as of 2 planets we aball get IOX7=70 Durodhura. yogas. Simila1·ly the 10 Sunapha yogas of three planets will give 10X3=30 Durudhura yogaa; and the five Bnnapha yogas of 4 planet.a will give n.11 5x I =5 Durudhara yogas. Bo that the number of possible Durudbura yogas=75+70+PO +5=180. • 5. A.person born in a Sunapha yoga will be poaaessed of self-acquired property:, will be a king or will resemble a kiug, ,md will be a man of intelligence, wealth and renown: A.person born in an Anapha yoga will be a man of influence n.nd lluthorit.y, will be free from diseases, will have a oontrol over bis pll.88ions, will be of great renown, will be in the enjoyment of all 'manner of pleasures, will wear neat dress and will be free from grief. 6. A person born in a Durudhora yoga will be in the enjoyment of all m,.mner of pleasures, will be possessed of wealth and chariot, will be libenLl in his gift and will have good servant.a. •A person born in a Kemadrnma yoga, though he may belong to a ki~g's family, w~ll be dirty, afflicted with grief, will do deeds not suitetl to h~ rank in Hfe, will be poor, will serve under othe1·a and will be wioked. 7, If the yog11, pl"net be Ma111,the person will be nctive, foud of fight, and :wealthy, and will engage in deed:, wit.hoot thought. IC the yoga planet be Mercury, the pt-rson will bt1 Hkilli,d in work, will be of good speech and learned iu the arts (a). If the yoga planet be Jupiter, a person will be wealthy and virtuous, will live for ever in comfo1·t and will be respected by the king. If the yoga Digitized by Google on.18.]. BIIBlT JI.TAU, 14.1 planet be Venus, a person will be afflicted with sexnal paa.aion, will be very wealthy and in .tbe enjoyment·of all man.ner of pleaaores. Notes. (a). In musio, danoe,' painting, &:c. 8. If the yoga planet be .Saturn, A person will enjoy the wealLbi property and servants of others, will engage in various deeds and will be the chief of parties of men (a). It the birth oocur by day, the Moon wiJl bring on misery i£ she ocoopy the visible hemisphere, and will briog o(l prosperity if abe occopy the invisible hemisphere; if other.wise, the results will be the reverse of these (b). Notes. (a). If two or more planets be yog,~ planets tho effects described for them all will OO!)le to pass. (b). Tbat i11, if the birth occur by night, the Moon will bring on misery if she occupy the invisible hemisphere and prosperity iC she occupy the visible hemisphere. 9. If all the bene&c planets (a) occupy the UpacLaya pltt.ces(b) from the ascendant at the time of birth, a person will be very rioh and if they oc~upy the U pa cha ya placeR from the Moon, he will be moderately ri.ch. If two of the planets occupy the Upaohaya places a peraon will be moderately wealthy and if one of them ~cqpy such placff he will possess small wealth (o). Even if the pers<'n be bom in other malefic Yogas {d) the present yoga will take effect to their exolosion(e), Notes, (a). M.eroory, Jupiter and Veoue. (b). The l;!rd, 6th, 10th aud 11th 11011808from the ucendan•. (o). Or poor, If bene6c plauet.e oooupy the Upachaya places both from the ascendant and from the Moou a penmn will be exceedingly rich. Digitized by Google 142 BBJBAT J'A'l'il.\. ( d). Such as Kemadruma yoga. . <•>·That is, suppose a person to be bom in a,Kem,.;; •druma yogt\ and suppose the benetic planets to occupy tha Upacbaya places from the aacend11ntor the Moon or both, the person will become rich and not poor. CHAPTER XIV. ON DouBLB Pu.nTARY YooAS. 1. If at thtt timo of birth tho S110 and Lbe Moon occu.py together a sign· of the Zodiac, the person born will be a maker of fire engines (a) and will work in stones; if the Sun aud Mara occupy a sign together, the person ~will be addicted to sinful deeds; if the Suu and Me1·onry occupy a sign· together, the person will be skilled in work, will ho intelligent and famous, and will live in comfort; if the Sun and Jupiter occupy a sign together, the person will be cruel and will work for other men ; if the Sun and,Venus oc.cupy a sign together the person • will gain money by engaging in public sports and by the use of weapons. and if the S11n and Saturn occupy a sign together, the persou. will be skilled in metal wol'k and in earthen-ware. Notes. (11). Engines of destrnctiou according to. Commentator. 2. If the double planet.s;oocupying together a sign of the Zodiac at the time of birth be the Moon and Ma1·s the person will ellm money by the , sale of works of art, of women, of liquor, and of pots and will give trouble to hi11 motbf\l'; if they be the Moon and Mercury, the person will be of sweet speech, skilled. in literary interpretation and will become popular and famous; if they be the Moon and J npiter, the person will defeat h_is e11emies, jwill be an im• pol'tant person in his family, will not be of firm views and will be greatly rich; i( they be the Moon and Venus, the Digitized by Google DRIRAT JAT!KA.i 148 person will be ekilled in cloth work (a) J it they bet.be Moon and Bat.urn, t.he person will be the son of a re-married. woman (b), NoUJs. (a). Li weaving, stitching, dyeing; buying and selling cloths. (b). Ti1e S1ineoi·it term for the woman ia Pnnarbhti. She ia said to be a woman, who, out of sexual paaaioo; quits her hus~nd and marries a.person of her owil caste whether or not ehe may have joined in sexual unfon~ 8. If the donble planet.a oconpying together a sign of the Zodiac at the time or birth be Mara and Mercury, the person will deal in roots and the like, in oil, in works of att and will be skill"d in duels; if t.hey be Mara and Jupiter, the person will be the chief of a town o'r a king, will acquire inoney or will be a Brahmio; if they be M.ars and Venus; the person will protect cows, will eng•ge in duele, will be skilled in work, will indulge in sexual union wi•h the wives of other nien and will be a gambler; if they be Ma.rs and 811tarn, the pel'BOnwill be afflicted with grief; will be a Jiar, an<l will be despised by others. 4,.. If the double planets occupying together a sign ot the Zodiac o.t the time of birth be Mercury and Jupiter, the person will be skilled in duels, will be fond 0£ music and lenl'lled iu dauce ; if they be Mercury aud Venus the person will be one of good epeeoh, and will be a ruler over countries anq over men ; if they be Mercury and Saturn, the person will be skilled in deceiving other:1, and will reject the advico or his preceptor; it thE'y be Jupiter and Veuus, the porsou will be learned ill some respectable depar\ment 0£ knowledge, will possess wenlth, n.wife and vn.l'ious virtues ; if they be Jupitet· n.nd S,iturn, the person will boo. ba.!·ber, a potman or a cook. 19 Digitized by Google ':8RIEIAT UT.lU, [CB.]4. 5. If the double planets occupying together a sign of the Zodiac at •he time of birth be Venus and Saturn, the person will be abort-sighted, will have an increase of wealth through the friend1:1hip of a young woman, and willbe skilled in writingand painting. In the case of other plar;ietary yogas, (a) the effects described shall be determined and applied. N:>tes. (a). Thnt is, if three or more planets occupytogether a aign of the Zodiac at the time of birth, the yoga sball flrat be split into a unmber of double planetary yogas and the efl'ects described in this Chapter shall then be applied. ,.g. Suppose the four planets, the Sun, Moon, Mars ancl :Mercury to occupy together a single sign. This yoga e&~ be split into six double planetary yogas aa follows : (1), The San and the Moon, (2), the Sun and Mars,(S), the Sun ancl Mercury, (4), the Moon and Mara, (5), the Moon ancl Mercury, (6), Marsand Mercury. The effects described for each shall be determined and applied, Notes.-The following yogas referring to the sever&l groups of 2, S, 4, IS and 6 planets occupying together a single sign of Zodiao at the time of birth are taken with their efl'ecta from a work known aa Jataka Parijat.a. I-Or two Planets. If the yoga planets occupying a single sign be (1). 1.'he Sun and the Moon, the person will be subject to the influence of women, will be skilled in work, and will be of bright appearance. (2). 'fhe Sun and Mara, he will bo a strong man, a • liar and a sinner. (8), The Sun and Mercury, he will be learned, beau.tifot stro:ig·and of fixed views. Digitized by Google 8ltlB'AT .TATAU. (-')· The Sun and Jupiter, he will be earnest in work, will be a favorite with the king.and ri~b. (5). The San and Venus, he •ill acquire wealth through women, will have kinsmen and enemies and will be inteliigent. (6). The Sun and Saturn, he will be or dull under.atnndiug and subject to bis enemies . ... (7). M.oon an<l Mars, be will be boJd and born of a :high family ; will be virtuous, wealthy and possessed of aood qnalities. (8), Moon and Mercury, be will be charitable, learned in sciences, and possessed of excellent qualities. (9). Moon and J opiter, be will protect· good and pious men and will be very intelligent. (10). Moon and Venus, he will be a sinner and a Merchant. (U). Moon and Saturn, be will posaess a bad wife, will ill-treat his father and will be poor. {11). Mare and Mercury, he will be of good speeeh and learned in medicine, arts and sciences. (18). M"rs and Jupiter, he will be or stro11g sexual pauion, will possess excellent qualities and will be a mathe.matician. (14,). Mars and Venus, he will be fond of fight and of the world, and will be deceitful. (15). liars and Saturn, he will be litigious, fond of music and or a doll understanding. (16). Mercury and Jupiter, he will be of good speceh, beantiful and very rich, (17). :Mercury and Venus, he will be 6 ruler over oountries and over men. Digitized by Google nnuu.T JA'l'.AU, (18). .Mercury and Sa.turn, he will bG deoeitfuli and will not be open to tbo advioe of his pl'eceptor, (19). Jupiter and Venus, be wi)! he of bright appear. ance, a favorite with the king, will be very intelligent and sJcilled in work. (20). Jupiter and Saturn, h~ will be a sculptor an<l willprotect cows. (21), Venne and Saturn, will be skilled in duels, :U.-OF THU.EE PLANEl'S . .lgain, if the Yoga planets oco,1pying a single sign be (1). The Sun, tho Moon and Mars-the person wiU destroy the family of his enemy, will be rich and just. (2). The S11n, the Moon and Mercury, he will resemble a king and will be learned and famous. (S). The Sun, Moon and Jupiter, he will be poss~se!l of many good qualities and will be learned. (4). The Sun, Moon and Vtinas, he will commit adultery, will be oruel, will be subject t.o fear from his enemy and will bo 1·foh, (5). The Sun, Moon and Satm,n, he will be a man of wrong views, will be ueoeitful and will travel to foreign lands. (6), The Sun, Mars Rnd :Mercnry-he wiJlbe wilhou~ enjoyment of any kind and wiJlhavo sons, wealth and wife. (7). The Sun, Mars and Jupiter, he will be fond of sexual enjoyment, will be oousiderate, will be a commander of arfnies 01· a magistrate. (8). The Sun, Mars and Ve11m, he will be afflicted. with diseases of the eye, will Jive in comfo1·~o.nd born int\ J;OO!lfamilr, Digitized by Google BRIB.lT lATU'.A; 141 (9). The Sun, Mn.rs and Saturn, he will be separated • from his kinsmen, will be dumb, will suffer from diseaaes and will be rich. 00). The Sun, Mercury and Jupiter, he will be of sound views, will be learned, wealthy and famous. (11). The Sun, Mercury and Venue, he will be of son bo<ly, will be learned and. famous and will live in comfort. (12). The Sun, Mercury and Saturn, he will be with.out kinsmen and poor; will hate mankind and wm be of viciou~ habits. (18). The Sun, Jupiter and Venus, he will possess o. good wire and children, will be very intelligent, will snffer from diseases of the eye and will ho rich. (14). The Sun, Jupiter and Saturn, he will be fearless, will be liked by the king and will be of quiet and excellent dispo11ition, (15). 'fhe Sun, Venus and Saturn, he will be of bad reputation and will be l1aughtv and insolent. (16). The Moon, Mars and Mercury, he wi1.lbe glut. ~onous, will be addicted to wicJced deeds and will abuse other people. (17)• The Moon, :Mars and Jupiter, he "ill ho of angry speech, will bo of strong sexual pa.ssion and will ~e beautiful. (18). The Moon, Marsand Venus, he will be of bad conduct, will have no sons and will be fond of trav.els. (19). The Moon, Mal'S and Saturn, he will be virtuous and wealthy, will have a bad wife and will be litigious. (20). The Moon, Mercury and Jupiter-be will be charitable and learned in sciences, will protect good ~.a.nd pious men and will be of good speech. Digitized by Google us JIBIJliT JAT.U:A. [oe: 14. (21). The MoonJ Mercury and Venus-will be learned, will be addieted to low deeds and will have numerous ser.vants. (22). The Moon, Mercury a.ndSaturn-will be libe1·al in gift, will be respected by the king and will be possessed of good qualities. (2!3). The Moon, Jupiter atid Venus-will be intelligent, will have good sons and will be skilled in works of art. (24). The Yoon, Jupiter and Saturn-will be learned in sciences, will be fond of old womon and will be as happy as a king. (25 ). The Moon, Venus and Saturn-will be learned in the Vedas, will be the king's chaplain and will be liked by all people. (:26). Mars,Yercury and Jupiter-will be fond of music, of Vedas, of literature and of drama, (27). Mars, 'Mercury and Venus-will be of defective organs, will be born of a bad family and will be of settled views. (28). Ma.rs, Mercury and S11tnrn-will serve nnder other menJ will suffer from diseases of the eye and will be fond of travels. (29); Mars, Jupiter and Venua-will be liked by the king, will havegood sons, and will live in comfort. (30), Mara,Jupiter and Saturn-will be of thin b(ldy, without oomfortJ respectable and given up to a vicious course of lifo. (31.) Afars, Venus and Saturn-will have bad sons and will ever be or pure mind, 82. Mercury, Jupiter. and Venus-will conquer ove1· his enemies and will be of wide-spread fame. Digitized by Google CH, 14.] BatJU.T JATA.U. 88. Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn-will live in great comfort, will be wealthy and will be attached to his wife, :i•. Mercury1 Venus and Saturn-will tell lies. 35 .. Jupiter, Venus and Saturn-will be of cl~ar understanding and will be happy and famous. III.-OF FOUR PLANETS. Again, if the yoga planets oocupying together a sign of Zodiac at the time of birth be (1). The Sun, Moon, Mars and Mercury-the person will be deceit[ul, skilled in the art o~ writing and will suffer from diseases, (2). The Sun, Moon, Mars and Jupiter-will be rich, famous, intelligent and liked by the king and will be free from diseases and from grief. (8). The San, the Moon, Mars and Venus-will have a wife an~ children, will be learned, a moderate eater, happy, skillod in work a.nd meroifal. (4). The Sao, Moon, }fa.rs and Saturn~will suffer from diseaaes of the eye, will be food of travels and of prostitutes and will be poor. (6). The Sun, Moon, Mercury and Jupiter-will have eight sons, will be rich and possessed of good qua.lities ; will be f amoue, powerful and liberal iu gift. (6). The Sun, Moon, Mercury and Venue-will be of defective organs and of good speech. (7). The Sun, Moon, Mercury and Saturn-will _be poor and ungra.teful, (8). The Sun, Moon, Jupiter and Venue-will be possessed of many good qua.lities, will commit adultery with other women, will be intelligent and will suffe1· from diseases or the eye. Digitized by Google 150 »&IHA.T lAJ'AEA, (9). The Sun, Moon, Jupiter and Saluril-will be fond of travels, will be rich, intelligent and attached to prostitutes. (10). 1'he Sun, Moon, Venus and Saturn---will be of defective limbs, will be timid, will follow git-ls and will be fond or wealth and meals. ( 11 ). The Sun, Mara, Mercury and Jupiter-will be strong, will get i11to difficulties, will be ma1·ried and rich, will euff~1·from diseases or tho eye nnd will bo fond of travels. (12). The Sun, Mars, Mercury and Venos---will be fond of the wives of other men, will be of fearful eyes and appearance, will be addicted to thieving aud will be wenk, (18). The Son, Mars, Mercury and Saturn-will be a commander of armies or a miuist.er, will be addicted to )ow deeds and will bo int-he enjoyment of nmnerous pleasures. (14). The Sun, Mnrs, Jupiter and Venue-will be as famous as the king, will be respected everywhere aud will be rich. (15). • The Snn, Mars, Jupiter an<l Satnrn-w:11 be l,lind, will be o. wuuderer and will havo friends and kins.men. (16). The Sun, Mars, Venus and Saturn-will sufl'ar disgrl\ce, wiil be slothful and possessed of good qualities. (17). Tho Sun, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus-will be very rich and famous. (18). The Sun, Mercury, Jupiter and Satum-will bring about quarrels, wilt be 1·espcctable anu of vicious habits. (19), The Sun, Mercury, Venus and Sa.tum-will be of good speech, will be truthCn!, will be a. man of prinoiplo nod wi\\ bo of good conduoi. Digitized by Google BBIBAT 14T.ll:.l. 161 (20). 'Ibo Snn, Jupiter,,Veous 11nd &tntn-will be learned in art.P, will be the chief or low people and will bo obstinate. (21). The Moen, lfa.rt1, Mercury and Jopiter-wHl be liked by the king, will be a minister or an eminent poet. (22). The Moon, Mnn, Me1·oury and Venos-will have a good wife and sons, will be intelligent, will be ugly and deformed a.nd will Jive in comfort .. (23). The Moon, Mars, Mercury and Saturn-will have double parents, wiJl be bold and will have aevera.l wives and childreu. (24). The Moon, Mars, Jupiter and Veoos-will do Binful deeds will iudulgo in sleep nnd will be fond of money. (2f>). Tbe :Moon, Mars, Jupiter and &turn-wiU be of firm views, bold, happy and learned. (26). The Moon, Mars, Venus and Saturn-will be of bad oooduot, will h11ve no sons, will be learned in the Vedas or will be the king'd priest. (27), The Moon, .Mercury, Jupiter and Venus-w~ll be nry rich, attached td his kinsmen and virtnoos. (28). The Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Satnrn-will be liberal in gifts, will be respected by the king will live iu great comfort, will be wealthy aud altnched to his wife. (29). The Moon, Mercury, Venus a.nil Snt.urn-will be hated by the people and will be fond of tbe wives of other men. (30), The Moon, Jupiter, Venne and Sn-turn-will be without sons, will not be oarnest in work o.nd will be without mercy. (31). Mars, Morcury, Jupilor and Venus-will be rioh and despised by the people 20 Digitized by Google 152 BRIHAT JATAKA. [cu. H (82). Mars, Mercnry, Jupiter and Saturn-will anffer from diseases and will be poor. (88), Mars, Mercury, Venus and Saturn-will be of defective limbs, will serve under other men, will tell lies and will have bad sons. (84). Mars, Jupiter, Venus and Sllturn-will be liked by the. king, will be of thin body, will have bad sons and will be of clear nnderat,mding. (8;)). Mel'oury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn-will be very rich, learned, and of good conduot. IV. OF FIVE PLANETS . . Again, if the yoga planets occupying together a sign of Zodiac at the time of birth be ( 1). The Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury and Jupiter-t-he person will engage in fight, will be deoeitful and akilled in work. (2). 'I'he Son, Moon, Mars, 'Mercory and Venus-will be devoid cf charity, "ill be earnest in work, will be with.out kinsmen and will work f,>r other men. (S). • The Sun, Moon, MarR, Mercury and Saturn-will be of &hort lire, will be fond of earning money and without wife and ohildren. • (4). 'fhe Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter and Venue-will delight in annoying other men, will be rejected by his parents anb kinsmen and will be of defective eyes. (5). The Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter and S"turn-will be avaricious and will be afflicted with grief owing to sepa.ration from his wife. (6). The Sun, Moon, Mars, Venue and Saturn-will be wealthy, powerful, able and dirty and will covet the wives of other men. Digitized by Google CB. 14.J DBIB&T lATilA• 16'3 (7), The Son, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus.will be a minister, will be rich, sncoeasful, famoua and powerful and will also be a magistrate. (8), The Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn.will depend on othor men for meals, will be timid, will commit aina and will engage in fearful deeds, (9). The Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus and Saturn.;_ "ill be poor, tall, without sons and sickly. (10). The Son, Moon, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn.will be without a wife, of good speech, will have enemies will be fearless and learned in jugglery. (ll). The Sun, Man, Meroury, Jupiter and Venus.will be without grief, a good friend ancl mast.er of horseB and covet the wives of other men. (12). The Sun, Mars, Meroury, Jupiter and Saturn.will beg his meals, will be dirty and dressed in ragged clothes. (13). The Sun, Mars, Mercury, Venus and Satum.will be an important person aud will be afflicted with grief, fear, disease and hunger. (14). The Sun, Mare, Jupiter, Veuus and Saturn.will be respeoted everywhere, will be rich, will be blind and will have friends and kinsmen, (15). The Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn.will possess a knowledge of Atma, will do deeds accepta.ble to Devaa and to his pl!'eceptor» and will be lt:arued in sciences. (16), The Moon, Mars, Meroury, Jupiter and Venus -will be of a mild diapoaition, happy, 1·ich, powerful 11,nd learned. (17). The Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn -will be akillecf in engineering, will be of strong physique and will be famous fot· his skill in work. Digitized by Google DRIBAT JATAXA, (18)• The Moon, Mars, Me1·cury, Venus and Saturn.will have a good wife and sons, will be intelligent and wi 11 live in comfort. • ( 19). The Moon, Ma.rs, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn.will work for otbet· men, will be poo1·, of dirty appearance, ignorant and addicted to thieving. (20). The Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Sn.turn -will be respected in all lands, will be of defective limbs, will be a minister and will resemble a king. (21), Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Satnrn.will be respected everywhere, will be skilled in work, will suffer from torture, imprisonment and disen.se. V.-Or' SIX PLANETS. Lastly, if the yog" planets occupying a single 1,ig11 of Zodiac at the time of birth be the several planets except (1). Saturn-the person will be a writer of scientifio works, will dwell in woods and mountaius and will be possessed of n wife, sons and wealth, (2). Ex:oept Vt1nm-will bo addicted to thieving, will_ covet other women, will be despised by his kinsmen, will be without sous, will !Jea fool und will travel to foreigu lands. (S), Except· Jupiter-will be a m:m of Jo,v birth, will work for other men, will snfftn· from consumption and will be despised by the people, (4). Except Mercury-will be a ruiuisier, will be possessed of a wife, sons, wealth and comforr. and will have a control over hia passions. (5). Except. Mure-will suflel' from headache, will be mad, will li,•e in places unfrequented by man and will tl'avel to foreign lt~nd:t. Digitized by Google OH, Jo,).• DRIUAT JATAB:A, !55 (6). Except the Moon-will be an energetic traveller and intelligent. (7). Except the Sun-will visit holy"places, and will be i·ich, CHAPl'EH XV. ON ASCETIC YOGAS, 1. A pel'son born when four or more (a) powerful (b) pla.uets occupy a single sign of the Zodiac becomes an ascetic of the Sakya, .Ajiviko., Bhikshuka, Vri<lhasravukR, Obn.kra, ~irgrandha or Vnnyasana clues nccol'ding as the most powerful planet of the group is Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, the Moon, Venus, Saturn or tlie Sun, {c) If such powerful plauet be one that bas suffered defeat in conjunction nt tho time of birth,· the ascetic will, after a time revert to his previous condition of life. Notes. (a). That is 5, 6 or 7 phnets. (b), If no planet be powerful there will be no Pravri• jfa (ascetic yoga), (c), The a.acetic life of the most powel'fnl planet will be embraced by the person first, then that of the planet next in power and so on. 'l'be first chnngo of lif o will occm· iu tho Dasannd Antardasa period of the most powerful planet; the succeeding changes will occur io the Antardasn. periods of the respectivu planets. If the yoga planet be a single power.ful planet which does not suffer defeat in conjunctiou, the ascetio life assumed will continue till death. We shall now explain the terms referring to the several clas~es of ascetics. • (1). Sllkya :-A Bndhist ascetic dressed in red robes. (2). Ajivika :-A Jain asceUc; the term includes Vaishnava asoetics as well. Digi~ized by Google BllIHA.T JA'UU, [cu. 15.156 (S). Bhikabu :-A Brahman ascetic who abandons hie house and family and subsists entirely on alms. ( 4),  Vridhasravka :-known  as  kapalika., &. follower  of Siva.  (5).  Chakra :-known  as  Chakradbara, is  an  asoetio  who wears a discus. (6). Nit-grandba :-a naked asoetio. (7). Vanyas"na :-an ascetio who subsists on the roots of tho forest and is engaged i11 Divine meditation. 2. If the most powerful yogo planet be an .A.stangata planet, (a) a person will not beoomea Deekshita {b) but will be attached to pe1·ilons who are such. Again, if the power.ful planet which suffers defeat in ooujnuotion be aspeoted by othe1· planets, a person will not become a Deeksbita. (c:) but will poueas a strong desire to beoome one. Notes. (a)-'l'his haa already been explained. (b). That .is, one of the holy order of men, (c). If not nspected, be will btcome one, and after a time revert to his former oondition of life as stated in Lho last stanza. 3; If the lord of the sign occupied by the Moon as.pects Saturn and be 11ot aspeoted by any other planet, (a) or if Satum aspect the lord of the sign occupied by the Moon when such lord is not powerful, (b) a. person will beoome an ascetic. Again, if t.he Moon occupy the Drekkaua. of Satu1·n nnd the Navamsa of Saturn or Mara and be aapected by Saturn, {c)a person will beoome an ascetio (cl). Notes,. (a). The Pravl'ijia will be Lhat of such lord or Saturn whiohever is powel'ful. Digitized by Google ca. 16,l DBIBAT 1ATAn. 157 (b). The Pravrijia will be that of Saturn. (c)• And not aspected by any other· planet. {d), 'fhe ascetic Hre will be that described for Saturn. 4. A perRon born when Jupiter, the Moon and the i·isiog sign al'o aspeoted by Saturn, when Jupiter occupies the 9th house f1·om the ascendant and nnder one of the Raja yogas 1,ecomes a scientifio author. (a). Again, a person born when Sa.turn occupies the 9th house from the ascendant and is not aspected by other planets and under a Raja yoga will become both a king and an ascetic, (b). Notes. {a). If the horoscope contain a Raja yoga a.nd an ascetio yogn, the former will not take effect, but the latter will; suoh for instance as the Jives of VarahaMilaira, Kanada, Bud ha, PanchasikhA, Brahma Gupta. and others. ICthe horos.cope contain two Uaja yogas and an ascetio yoga, the person wil1 become a king-such as Janaka, Kasiraj11, Suchidhwaja and others. (b). If the horoscope contain no Raja yogas but only the ascetic yoga described in 'the text, the person will b«t4 come. an ascetic. OHAPTER XVI. Os Tu NADBATBAB, OB The Moon In The Asteriems. 1. A person born when the Moon passes through the ast.erismof Aawioi will be fond of ornaments, will be of fine appearanoe,will be popular, akiUed in work and intelli.gent. Digitized.by Google BlUIIAT JATAJU., [oH. 16.158 A person born • when the Moon passeH through the 1·3-asterism of Bbarani will be auccesafulat work, t1·ntbful, free from diseaaes, able and fl·ee from grief, 2. A pe1-son born when the . Moon passes through the aatel'i&m of K1·ittika will ho~ glutton, fond of the wives of other men, of bright appearance and of wide-spread fame. A person born when the Moon passes through the as.terism of Robini will be truthful, will not covet the property of other men, will be of oleanly ho.bits, of sweet speech, of firm views, and of fin& appenrance. 8. A person born when the Moon passes through the nsterism of Mrigasirsha will ba of no firm principles, will be able, timid, of good speech, of active habits, rich and will indulge in sexual pleasures. A pe1·son born when the Moon passes through the asterism of Ardra will be insincere, of irascible temper, ungrateful, troublesome and addicted to wicked deeds. 4. .A person born when the Moon passes through the a11tel'ismof Pnnarvasu will be devout and of pa.tient habits will live in comfort, will be good-natured, quiet, of wrong v_iews, sickly, thii·sty and pleased with trifles. 5. A person born when the Moon passes through f.l,e nsterism of Pasbya will have a control over his desires, will be generalJy liked, learned in the So.strus, rich and will be found of acts of oharity. A person bom when the Moon passes through the asterism of Aslesha will not be attentive to the work of other men, will be a promiscuous eater, will be sinful, un· grateful and skilled in cheating other men. 6. A person boru when the Moon passes through the asterism of Mughawill have numerous servants, will wor.ship the Devas and Pitris and will be engaged in important works, Digitized by Google ce. JG] BRIBAT JATAK'A. A person born when the' Moon passes tbron~h the as.J\ terism or P. Plrnlgnni will be or sweet speech, will be liher1ll in his gift11, of w!'nderi11g b1Lhits and will serve under kings• 7. A person born when the Moon passes through the B!lterism of U'. Phalguui will be gene1·ally liked, will earn monoy by his learning and will Jive in comfort. A pe1-Ron bo1·n when the lfoon pa.cises through the ns.terism of HI\Sta will be of active habits, full of resources, shameless. merciless and a thier and a diunkard. 8. A person born when the Moon passes through tlie asterism of Chittra will wenr cloths and flowers of various colors and will have beautiful eyes and limbs. A person born when the Moon passes thro~gh tl)e nsterism of Swati will be of a mild and quiet nature, will control his passion, will be skilled in tracle, will be merci.ful, un11.ble to bear thirst, of sweet speech and disposed to do acts of charity. O. A person born when the Moon paases ihrough tl1e asterism of Vieakha will be jealous of another's prosperity, will be a nig!l'ard, of bright appenmnce, of distinct spe·ech, skilled in earning money and disposed to b1-ing about quar.rels among men. A person born when the Moon pMses tl1rongl1 the as.terism of .Anura.dha will be rioh, will live in foreign· Jandl!, j will be unable to benr hunger un<ldisposed to wander from '7 place to place. 10. A pe1·son born when the Moon pa.eses through the asteriKm of Jyeshta will h:we few 'friends, will be very cheerful, vi1·tuous, and of frasciblo tempe1·. A person born wl,eu the Moon passe!! through the as.tcri:m1 of Moola will be haugMy, rich, happy, not dispos~d to iuj11ro othel' men, of firm views a.nd will live in luxury, 21 Digitized by Google ·11>0 BRIUAT JATAKA. (ca. 16. 11. A person bo1·n when the Moon pRsses through the ttslerism of P. Ashadha will l111vean agreeab!e wife, will be proud 11nd o.ttaclaed to friends. A pel'son born when the Moon passes through the n~terism of U. Ai;hadh,~ will be obedient, will be learned in the rules of vir;u1, will posses m,my friends, will be grate.ful and 1·etur11 f1tvors received mul will be generally liked. 12. A person horn when the Moon pusses through tl1e astorism of Sravana will be prosperous and learned, ,vill have a libel'11l-minded wife, will be l'ich anrl of wiJe.spread famo. A person born when tbe Moon passes through the as~ terism of Dhanishta will be liberal in gifts, l'ich, valient, fond of music and will be a nigga1·d. 1~. A person born when the Moon passes through the nsterism of Satabhishak will be h11rsh in his speech, will be truthful will suffer grief will conquer liis enemies, will tbougbtloissly engage in w01·k and will be of independent wnys. A penon born whon the Moon pnsses through the as.teri:nn of P. Dhadrapada will sulfor from grief, will place l1iij wenlth nt the dispCJsnl of l1is wife, will be of distinct . speech, will be skilled in earning money and will be a niggard. 14. A person bom wl1en tl1e Moon passes through the nsteri~m of U. Dhl\drapa•la will be an able speaker, will be h11ppy, will posaess cl1ildre11 and graud-ouildron will con• quer his enemies aud will be ,·irtuous. A person born when the Moon p11ssestl1rongh the as.terism of Revati will possess perfect limbs, will be liked by all the people, will be deeply learned, will never covet the pl'ope1·Lyof otheL' meu anu will be rich, Digitized by Google llBIOAT JATAJCA; Notes. Tho effects desnribod above will fully come to pMII only if the Moou be powerful. CHAPTER XVII. ON Tm: MooN IN 'l'n1 SznRAL SlONsOF 'l'HI!: ZODIAC. 1, A person born with the Moon in sign Arie~ will luwe ronnd. rl!d•f!Y<'B,will be f1111<lof veget.ab!A food aud will el\t hot tneale but in a moderate degree; will be of" quickly relent.ing nl\tur~, will be fond of travels and of r,oxuo.l union ; will he of strong knee!4 ; will JlO!'Aess110 ~rmanent wealth; will be fond of 6ght and of women ; will be ~skilled in befriending other men; will have di;,.figored nails and A wounded head; will be hnnghty, will be lite eldest of his brothers; will h,we lines in his hand of the shape orthe ,veapon known ns Sakti; will be fickle-min.ded and will be afo1iJ of water. 2. A person born with the Moon in sign T11urns will be of fine appearance and of beautiful g"it; will possess large \highs l\nd face; will possess marks ou his hack, face and sides, will be liberal in his gift.a; will bear misfortunes; will possess great iuflueoce and authority; will hu.ve a large hump 011 the nt>ok ; will have daughter11; will snff'er from phlegmatic affect.ions, will Le aepurated from_ his kinsmen, wealth and eons; will be of ngrf'eable manuers and of patient niitnre; will be n grent eater; will be fond of women; will beattached to his friends and will be liap.py both wl,en young and old. 8, person born with tho Moon in sign Gemini will be fond of women, will be skilled in sexu11l union ;will possess Digitized by Google 102 B&IJIAT JATAKA. (cu. 17. red eyes; will be learned in tho Sastras; will carry messages; will possess curling hairs and a sharp intellect; will be skill.ed in wit., in disoovel'ing the thoughts of otl1er men and in game; will possess beautiful featul'es; will be of sweet speech; will be a great eater; will be fond of music, nnd skilled in.the r11les of dance; will join in sexunl union with herma.pl1rodites; and will possess an elevated nose. 4. A person born with the Moon in sign Cancer will possess a bent body; will walk fa.-,t ; will have a high hip ; will be subject to the influence if womon; wil~ have au excelloot friend; will be learned in Astrology; will have numerous houses, will have a wealth which will increase and decrease as the Moon ; will be short ; will posseas a thick neck; will be capable of beiug won over by kind word11, will be attached to his f riands and will bo fond of wator aud forests. :S. A person born with the M,,on in sign Leo will be of irascible temper, of large cheeks, broad face and brown eyes; will have very few sons ; will hate women; will be fond of a_nimal food, forests and hills; will continue angry at trifles· for a long time; will ho afllioted with pains cnu!ied by hunger, thirst, belly-ache, tooth-ache as well ns purely mental anxieties; will be libeml in his gifts; will be bold in fight ; will be of fixed pl'inciples ; will be haughLy and attached to his mother. 6. A person bom ,vith the Moon in sign Virgo will,ont of moilesty, be of mild a.nd boa11tiful eyes 1md gnit; will huve his shoulderd and arms sunk or depre11sed; will live in com.fort, will be of soft body ; will bo truthful, will be skilled in dauce, music and painting; will be leuruei,l. in the Sastras; will bo viltuous and intelligent, will be fond of sexual union; will enjoy the house and property of othe1· meu; will live in fo1·eign land1:1; will be of swoet speech; and will hnve dnughters uud very fow sonl!. Digitized by Google CD', 17.] DRIJJlT 1ATAK'A• 7. A person born wHh tha Moon in sign Libra ~ill res. pnct tho Devas, Brnhmins, "od holy men ; will bo intelligent, will never covet the property of other men; wiJI lead a reli.gious life; will be subject to the influence of women ; will he t.all; will have a raise,l ooRe; will be of thin nnd dt1fective limbs and food of Lravels; will ba rich; will be u. trnder; will benr the nnme of a Dav" coupled with o.n PXtwlle11t stir.name granted by a body of lenrned men; will be sickly; will protect his family and will be disgraced anJ rejecttld by his kinsmen. 8. A person born with the Moon in sign Scorpio will have bro11.d eyes, a broad breast and round t1ha11b, tl,ighs and knees; will be SO)larated from his parents and precepl,0°1"Rj will be nfflicto<l with 11ii1e1LS«>Swhen young; will bo r0Rpeot,C1l by kingR, will of brown color; will not be of " straight.forward nature; will lin.ve lines in his hnnd and feet of the shape of the fi.Kh, the Vajrayudha or a birJ; and will euii._eavor Lo conoeal his sine. O. A person born wiU1the Moon in sign SngiUari will have a long face and neck ; will inherit his fatht1r's property; will be liberal in his gift; will be a literal'y author; will be powerful and skilled iu speech ; will have ll\rge teet.h, ears, lips aud nose, will engage in numerous works; will be skilled in 8culpture; will have indistinct shoulders, disfigured nnih and lu.rge hands; will be o[ a deep and inventive intelleot, will be a man of right under.standing; will bat.a bis kinsmen; will never yield to compul.sion but only ~o kind treatment. 10. A porson born with the Moon in sign C11pricorn will be evor attached to his wife nnd chilttren ; will do deeds of virtue; will hn.ve tbiu lower limbs, good eyes n.nil n thin waist; will be open to ad vice; will be of amiable manners and slow at work; wiU not bear colu; '!ill be of a. Digitized by Google . BRIHAT JATAKA.~ [CR, 17 wa.nde,•ing nature, powerrul and a litera1·y author; will be a 11igg11rda11d will be attached to old women of low casto; will be ehameless and merciless. 11. A person born with tho 'Moon in sign Aquarius will l1ave a llt'Ck like that of t110 Cumol, a body coverod with muscles, rough an<l covered with hair; will be tall; will have l1n•ge legs, thighs, back, b11t.tock!!, face, and lower belly; will be deaf; will be n.ttached to t.he wives of ot.hel' men and interested in the wicked dHeds of ot.her people ; will ri11e_ and fall by turns ; will de fond of flowers aud per• fumes; l\nd will be attached to frieuds and will walk with.out fealing tired. 12. A person born with the Moon in sign Pi!lces will be a dealer in the produce of the sea and a tmde1· in genorn.l; will be fond of his wife and clothes; will hava perfect Jimbs, a bright body, long nose and l,u·ge head, will put his enemies into disgrace, will be subject to the inf\ueece of women, will have beautiful eyes, and ,vill be fair, 1·ich, happy and learned. l 8. If at the time of birth of a person, the Moon, the sign occupied by the Moon and the lord of such sign he all powel'ful t-be effects described in this ohaptel' will fully come to pa!llti(a); the same remark applies to planets other than tho Moon (b). Notes. (a). If two or the three be powerful, the effects will como to pnsa impflrft>otly; if only one of the three bo powel'.ful, they will oome to pa.as still moi·e imperfectly and if none of the throe ho powerful, the effects will fail. (b). This refers to the 11ext chapter in wl1ioh the anthor describes the effects of the various planets occupy.ing t.he several signs of zodiac at the time of birth. Digitized by Google OB, 18,] BBIHA.T .JATU.:A. 160 CHAP'£ER XVIIf. 0.MTea SuN, MARS AND iOTnRJPL.lnTs lo the Sevel'al Signs of Z11di"o. 1. A person born with the Snn in Aries but not in its exaltntion degree (a) will be of wide-spread fame, able, of wn.ndering habits, pos,essed of sm,,11 wealt.h _andwill carry W81LponB, A pel'flori horn with the Sun in ._sign T,,nrns will denl in cloths, perfumeR an,t other articles, will hate women and · will be skilled in mnsio. • Notes. (a). A per11on born with the Snn in the exaltation degree will he very rioh, will remnin for ever in a place, will have servants oarrying arms, will be of grent fame and able. 2. A person born wit.h the Sun, in sign Gemini will be learned iu grammar, will be ~n Astrologer and will be ricl1. A peraon born with the Son in Canoer wilJbe independ.ent,, fierce, poor, will do the wo1·k or other people and will suffer from the fatigue of foot-joumey. A person born with the Sun in 11ign Leo will be fond of living in forests, mountains aud cow-sheds, will be powerful and will be a fool. A person born with the Sun in sign Virgo will be sk!ll.e,l in writing, P"inting, in literary p1·oductionsand in mathe• matfos, and will poPSess n. body resembling that of a woman. 8. A person born with the Sun in sign Libra will be fond of liqnor or will m"nuracture it, will be of a wondering nature, will be an alchemist and will do wioked deeds. A person born with Lhe • Sun in sign Scorpio will be of a. fierce nature, will thoughtlessly engage in wol'k, will enrn mon~y 1,y 110k conneotod with poison and will be vastly learned in the use of arms, Digitized by Google 106 Dl:IBAT JATAKA,• [cs. 18, A perRon bol'n with the Sun in Se.gitari will be reepec.tml by sages, will be rioh and independent and will be lcurnod in medicine and sculpture. A pt1rson born with the Sun in sign C11prioorn will engage in deeds unsuited to his 1·ank in life, will be igno.i·ant, will d~al in mean articles, will posses:1 small wealth, will be avaricious uud will erijoy the property of other men· A person born with the Sun in sign Aquarius will eng"gtt in deeds unsuite,i to his rank in life, will be poor n11d will hnvu no sous. A persn born with the Sun in sign Pisces will become 1·ich by dealing in the produce of water, will bo respected by women, will possess n mole or other murks in the part <>fbody cotTesponding to the sign occupied by the Sun and :Moon together. 5. A person born witl10 Mars in sign Aries or Scorpio will bA l'ospected by tho king,will bo of e. we.nd~ring ne.ture, will be " ol)mmander of armie1 or I\ trader, will be rich, will h,w~ a body mat·ked wit.h wounds, will be a thief e.nd will be in thu cnjc,yment of tho pleasures of the senses. A pqa·son born wit,h Mars in sign Tanrus or Libra will he snhjHct to the influence of women, will not be open to the advice of friends, will be fond of the wives of other men, will be learned in the games of magic, will adorn his per.son, will be of'" timid nut,ure and will have I\ 1•ougl1 body. (i. A person bMn with Mars in sign Gemini or Virgo will bo of bright tippearo.noP, will have sons and no friends, will ht1lp othcl's, will be skilled in music and fight, will Le u niggard, and will be feai-less a.nd of a. begging nature, A person born with Ma1·s in sign Cancer will be l'icb, will ct·oss se,'8 and e11r.i woa.hh, will be of defective limbs and will be wicked. Digitized by Google OB, 18.) IRIBAT JAT.UU.. 167 7. A person born with Mars in sign Leo·wm be poor, will patiently bear afflictions, will wander in the forests, will be fearless and win have few wives and children. A person born wi\h Marain sign Sitgittari or Pisces will bave many enemies, will be the;king's minister, will be of wide-spread fame, will be fearless and will have very few children . . A person born with Mars in sigo Aquarius wiHever suffer grief, will be poor, ,viii wander from place to pl11ce, will be a liar, will beindependent and wicked. A' person' born· w~tb Mara in sign Onpricoro will be very rich, will have manysons 11tidwill be a king or will resemble a king. 8. A person born with Mercury in sign Aries or Scorpio will be fond of gambling, of running into debt and of liquor; will be an atheist, will argue against the spirit of the S·iStrM; will be a thief, will be poor, will bave a mean wife, will be dflceitfnl, will be a liar and ~ill swerve from the path of rectitude; A person born with Mercnry in sign Tanroa or Libri. will be a pt·eacber, will have many sons and wives,· will ever be engaged in earning money, wiJl be liberal in gift and will respect bis preceptor, 9, A person born with Mercury in signGemini will be talkative, will bo a liar will be learned in the sciences, in music, in dance and iu painting ; will be of sweet speech and will live in coinfor~. A person bum with Mercury in sign Cancer will e..rn money by works connocted with' water ,md will be dialiked by his kinsmen. 10. A person born with Mercnry in sign Leo will be disliked by women', will be p()()r, will ba'\'e •neither comfort nor sons, will wande~ from place to place, will be ignorant, will be fond of women and will auffer disgrace. 12 Digitized by Google UlWA.'I UT.HA, [OIi. 18. A pereon born with Meroury in aigu Virgo will be liberal in gift, will be learned, will poeseaa many virtue11, will Ii ve in comfort, will be of a patient; uature, will he ingenious :and fearleea. 11. A person born with Meroury io sign Capricorn or Aquarius will work for other men, will be poor, will be a aculptor, will run into debt;a and will work for no fees. A person born with Mercury in sigh Sagittari will be 1'88pectod by kings, will be learned in soienoes and in laws. A person born with Mercury in sign Pisces will be skilled in befriending olher men, will readily discover the views of other people, and will be learned in the handicfflft of men of low oastea. 12. A person born with Jupiter in sign Aries or Scorpio will be a commander of armies, will be very rich, will have many wives and ohildren, will be liberal in gin, will have good eervanta, will be of a patient nature, and of bright :appearance, will be happy with hie wife and will be of great fame. A person born with Jupiter in ,rign Taurus or Libra will be free from diseases, will live in comfo1·t, will be rioh, will have friends and eons, will be liberal in gift and will be liked by all. A person born with Jupiter in sign Gemini or Virgo will have many olothea, hooaes, aervanta, sons and friends, will be a minister and will live in comfort. 13. A person born with Jupiter in sign Cancer will be p<111essedof gems, eons, wealth, wives, influence, in1oelligence and comfort. A person botu with Jupiter in sign Leo will be all that baa been said in tho oaae of a person born with JnJ>itel' in Oanoer and will beaidea be a commander of armies. Digitized by Google c,a. 18.) 169 A person born with Jupiter in sign 8agittari or Piscts will be the ruler of a province or a minister under a king or the commander of armies or will be very rich, A person bora with J11piter in sign Aquarius will be all that: has been said in the caseof a person born with the Moon ia aigo Cancer. A person born with Jupiter in eign Capricorn will do deeds disgraceful to bis rank in life, will poaaess very little wealth and will be afflicted with grief. J4,. A person born with Venus in sign Aries or Scorpio will be fond of the wives of other men, will Jose bis property through their in6uenoe and will bring disgrace on his family. A,person born wilh Venus in sign Taurus or Libra will acquire wealth by bis own power,, will be liked by the king, will be an important person among hie kinsmen, will be a man of fame and will be fearless. 15. Aperaon born with Venus in eign Gemini will do the work or a king, will be rich and learned in music, A person born with Ven1111in sign Virgo, will engage in bard work. A person horn with Venus in sign Capricorn or Aqu.rius will be liked by all, will be subject to the in6uenoe of women and will be. fond of bad women. 16. A person born with Venue in sign Cancer will have two wives, will be a beggar, will be timid and haughty and will suffer grief. A person born with Venus in sign Leo will acquire money tht·ougb women, will have.an excellent wire and very few sons. A pe1·1on born with Venus in sign Bagittari will be poaaessed of excellent qualities and will be rioh. Digitized by Google HIBA.T U.TAK:A, [ca. 18, ~ person born with Venne in sign 'Pisoe~ will be learn• ed, will ho a man of authority, will be rio~, ·~ill \>erespect.ed by the king and will be liked by all. 17. A person born with Snturn in sign Aries will be 11,fool, will wander from place to pluoe, will be a fop and will bo sepo.rated from his friends. i person born with Sat11rnin sign Scorpio will antler im prisonment, will receive blows, will b' indiff~rent to work and will be meroiles.ct, • • • A person bo1·0 with Saturn in sign Gemini .or Vii-go ~ill be sham~lcss, will suffer gdef, will be poor, will have no sons, will be a bad painter, will be a constable and will be a chief officer. 18. A person born with Saturn in sign Taurus will be fond of women of low caste, will possess 11mR.llweabh and will bnve several wives, • A person bo1·n with S"turn in sign Libra, ,vill be the chief of a party of men in a town or in an army or in a village and will be rich. A person bol'O with Saturn in sign Cancer will be poor, will ho.vo VtJry falV tooth, will be separated from his mother and will have uo sons. A. person born with Sllturn in sign Leo will not he deserving of l'espeot, will suffer gdef, will have no sons and will c1trry burdens. 19, A person born with Satum_in sign Sagittari or Pisces will die au exuellent delltu, will be a faithful officer in the king's palace, will have good sons and a good wife, will be wealthy, will be the ohief mau in a town, in ~u a1·my or in a village. A person born with Saturn in sign Capricorn or Aqu.arius will enjoy the wives anJ propet·ty of ot.het· men, will be Lho he1~d of u.tuwn, a villagu ot· nn army, will have we11ok Digitized by Google ea. 18.] BRIBAT JAT,UU. 171 eyes, will be dirty, will be indifferent to bathing, will hAve a perml\Jlent wealth and authority and will enjoy the porperty acquired by him. To determine the effects "'f the pl11netary places the reader is referred to StanzR. lS and Note (b) to it of the last Ch•pter. 20. The effects described for the several signs of the zodiac when the Moon occupies them 01· when they are aa• peeted by plAnets also apply to the rising sign; n"y -more effects are due to the risnig sign and to the 2nd, Srd, and other bhavaa (bousesj. I£ the houses be powerful and if their lords be also powerful, these effects will come to pass fully. Notes. I£ the ,isiog 'sign and its lord be powerful, a pet'Son born will be of strong physiq11e ; if tbe 2nd house and its lord be powerful, the person will be rich. Similar remarks apply to the other bha11aa. 'l'he following have be.en extraoted from Satyachariat·'s work on Horscopy. 1. A person born wl1en Aries is the rising sign_ will have dia6gnred fingers, will be of ir:,soiblo tempr, will bring on quarrels, will act inconsistently with bis views, will be of bilious and windy temper11.ment, will be a nig.gard, will suO'er gdef, will wben young, be sepnratecl from his parents and from his preooptor, will have vary faw son:\ will assist bis brothers and kinsmen, will be vir~uons, will travel to foreign lands, will engl\ge in useless work, will marry either a woman of lo,v casle or a deceitful wom1m or a woman of defective limbs or one who wa., already m1\l'ried, will obtain as relations persons of a friendly nature and will meeh his death either by weapons or by poison or b1 bilious complaints or by the people nbou~ him 01· by fire, by rain, by beiog shut np in a prison or by fall. Digitized by Google 172 IIBIHA.T l.lTAJ:A, [ou. 18 2. A person born when Taurus is the rising sign will have large lips, cheek, uoae and forehead, will be of phleg.matic and windy temp1,r1unent, will bo liboral iDgift, will be a apendtbrfft, will have d11.ughters and very few sons, will ill-treat bis parents, will be fond of work, will do wicked deeds, will earn mnch wealth, will ever be fond of his wife and will suffer from weapons. He will meet his death b1 weapons, ropes or animals, in fol·eign lands or will die through over work or by water or by a spear or through want of exercise or by quadrupeds. 3. A person born when the rising sign is Gemini will be either of defective limbs or will possess extl'a limbs, will be of sweet speech, will engage in excellent WOl'ks,will be of a mixed temperament, will be of small uoderittanding and of small body, will be liked by his precea>tor and by sages, will have very few younger brothers, will not be of very active hahits, will put other men to disgrace, will possedS good qualities, will be anxious to engage in a nnmber of wo1·ks, will be virtuous and not wicked, will earn and spend much, will possess several wives and will be free from serious diseases. He will meet his death by snake-bite, poison, animals or by water. 4, A person born when the rising sign is Cancer will be a man of no fixed principlea, will suffer diseases of genital organs, will be of a timid· nature, will be gt·aterul, will be of phlegmatio and wiody ternperument, will readily underst11nd things, will follow bis enemies, will spend the property of other men also, will be haughty among bis people, will be pat to diitg1·aoeby bis kinsmen, will lose his cbildreu, will engage in important works in foreign )ands, will be of imperfect sp,ech, will be a master over other men, will have an unequal wife, will suffer disgrace from bis euemies and will be 1·espected by many persons. He will meet, his death by means or a neck ornament01· a Digitized by Google 173CB. 18.] BIUBAT 1.lTAl:A. rope, by phlegmatic complaints, by the fracture of bones, b1 sword out, or by dropsy. 5. A peraou born when the rising sign is Leo will be severe, fond or animl\J food and or bilious temperAment, will conceal himself, will support hi. famHy by engaging in vArious works, will be a niggard, will like the people, wiJIbe a man of 1·enown n.nd or re,iignation; will atmoy bis kinsmen, will be able, and energetic, will be of a sinful nature, will po88eas several wives and will have a diseased waist, knees and teeth. He will meet his death by " ea.. pone, hu1·tful animals, by poison, by. wood, by diseases, by the creatures or water or by starvation. 6. A person born when the rising sign is Virgo, will be of sweet speech, of bright personal appearanoo, long legs aud arms, will be of a mixed temperament, will be or exoollent beauty, will receive wounds, will be rich, will be a niggard, will be attached to his kinsmen, will have many daughters, will be in bad terms with his brol.bers and sisters, wilt be inclined to deeds of virtue, will no\ earn much, and will be skilled in work. He will meet hie death by means of quadrupeds, weapons, bilioua attacks, grief, fire or rope. . 7, A person born when Libra is the rising sign will be of a rough body, a harsh i:iature and a phlegmatic and windy temperament, will thongh'1esaly begin a work, will be of abort neck, will be grateful, will acquire much wealth, will become famous by his acts of libe1-ality, will ae"e under his preceptor, will be respected b1 bis father, brothers and others, will be fond of walking, will be virtuous, will conceal himself to escape troubles from hie kinsmen, will lose hie wife, will be fond of fight and wiJl suffer from grief. He will meet his death by a famous man, by bis kinsmen, by mild quadrupeds., by perspiration, by sepa.ration from an object of desire and by the fatigne of journey. Digitized by Google 174 BIUJl.lT IATAJt\. [oa 1a 8. A person born when the riaing sign is Scorpio wil have a broad face and a Jong belly, will be of a harsh nature and of a bilious temperament, will have brown eyes, will be alow und'of quick pace, will be a mMter over others, will protect· a large family, will be hated bi bis kinsmen, will spend much, will have many children, will not lif'e in oomfo1·t, will have no enemies, will lose his virtues, will protect oxen, will fall into bad temper on account of his wife, will yield nothing to his· enemies, will have his own men for his enemies, will anffer from nuanerous diseases and will surrender", himoelf to his foe out of fear of aword.cut. He will meet his death by imprisonment, blows, sword-cut, bad diseases or by • fire. 9. A person born when the rising sign is Sagittari will have large lips, teeth and nose, will be of phlegmatic and windy temperament, will have 11, flashy genit"l organ, thighs and arms, will be of defective nails, will be skilled in wo1·k, will be bold in fight, will serve under men of low caste, will be deprived of his property by thieves, by fire or by the king, will be learned in laws, will be respected· by many people, will give t1·oublo to his brothers, • will W0t·k in foreign lands, will be liked by the king, will be indifferent to deeds of virtue, will q11al'rel with bis wives and will have a diseased (ace. He will meet his death by quadrupeds, snatkt:s, the king or by imprisonment. 10. A person born when the rising sign is Capricorn will have• a small nose, long face, arms and legs; will be of win,Jy temperament, of a timid nature, will thoughtlessly engage in work; will autfor imprisonment, will have a small family, and small · wealth, will be a nigga1·d, will have daughters, will have no kinameu, will live in plenty, will acquire wealth by bis valor, th1·ough the king anJ by forest will ob1:1erve fa.stiug, will have a wife of low oa1:1te,and will be attached to her, will have a large body, few hail's and Digitized by Google ca. 19.] BRIBAT 1ATAL\. r 175 weak knees and will suffer fron diseases. He will meet his death by children, by the wind, by weapons, by the king, by poison, by fall, by an elephant, by an inorease of bile or by dyspepsia. • n. A person born when the 1·ising sign is Aqoarios, will bo of inactive habits aud of harsh nature, will be the eldest in the family, willbe of bilious and windy tempe1·.ament, will have a nose shaped like the flower· of the sesamum plant, w:11 waste his wealth, will have many servant., will be hated by bis kinsmen, p1·eceptors, enemies and friends, will be fond of deeds of wickedness, will acquire much property, will never spend money on. charity, will assume a show of virtue, will worship the Devas and will suffer from phlcgmn.tic attacks n.ffecting the chest. Ho will meet his death from pains in the belly by vomition and by drugs adminii:1tered by women. l 2. A.pel'son born when the rising sign is Pisces will have thick lips, fish-like eye and large nose, will be of phlegmatic and windy temperament, will be a sage, will be of disfigured skins and of active habits, will be remat·kable for his gain and loss, will have good servants and kinsmen, will be disposed to deeds of virtue, will have a good wife, will help bis father, willjoin a woman of low deeds and will have bad enemies. He will meet his death by disease, corruption of the blood, snake• bite, attack of n lion, by the chiefs of parties of men, by venereo.l diseases, by drags, by fit8'iing:orby the futigae9 of journey, CHAPTER XIX ON PLANETARY A.SPEOTS. 1. If at the time of birth, the Moon occupy sign Aries and be aspeoted by Mars, the parson will become a kiog; if she be aspeotel hy Mercury, the person will be learned ; if 2'.3 Digitized by Google 176 BIUHAT .JATAI:!, [co. 19. by Jupiter, he will resemble a king; if by Venus, he wHI be a man of good conduct; if by tbe Saturn, he will be a thief and if by the Sun, he will be poor. If at the time of birt.h, the Moon occnpy sign Taurus and be aapected by Ma1-s,the person will be poo1·; if she be aspect.ed by Mercury, he will be a thief; if by J upite1·, he will be reapected by the people ; if by Vemus he will be a king; if by Saturn, he will be rich and if by the Sun be will be a Se"vaui. 1f at the time or birth the Moon occupy sign Gemini and be aspected by Mara,tho person will sell weapons ; if she be aspected by':Mercury, he ,vill become a king; if by Jupiter, be will be learned; if by Venus, he will be fearful; if by Saturn, he will be a. weaver and if by the Sun, he will be poor. • If at the time of bii-tb, the Moon OQCupy sign Cancer and be aspeoted by Mars, the pe1son will be a valiant sol.dier; iCebe be aspected by M~rcury, he will be a literary author; if by Jupiter, he will be learned ; if by Venus, be will be a king; if by 81\torn, he will live by weapons and if by the Sun, lie will suffer from diseases of the eye. 2. If at the time of bh·th, the Moon occupy sign Leo and be aspected by Mercury, the person will be an Astrologer; if asp_ected by Jupiter, be will be rich; if by Venus, he will be a king ; if by Satu1·n, ho will be a barbe1· ; if by the Sun, he will be a king and if by .Ma.1'8, he wiJl also be a king. lf at the time of birLh, the Moon occupy sign Virgo nnd be aspccted by Mercury, the pe1-son will be a king; if 11epected by Jupiter, he will be a commander uf al'miea; if by Venus, he will be vigilent and if by Satnrn, the Snn or Mars, ho will live by rerving under women. If at t.he time of birth the Moon occupy sign Libra and be aspeoted by Mercury~ the person will be a king ; if Digitized by Google orr. 19-] BRIBAT JATAICA• li7 nspected by jupiter, he will work in guld; if by,Venus, he will be a trader; and iCby Satum, the Sun or Man,, he will be a chief and will work mischief. If at the time of birth, the Moon occupy .sign Soorpio and be aspeoted by Mercury, the pel'Bon will get twins; if uspected by Jupiter, he will be obediunt ; ir by Vernus, he will be a washerman ; if by Satul'D, he will be of defective limbs; if by t.ho Sun, he will be poor and if by Mars he will be a king. 8. If at the time of birth, tbeMoon ocoupy sign Sagit.tari and be aspeotad by .Mercury, tho person will protect his kinsmen; if aspeoted by Jupiter, he will be a king; if by Venus, be will protect many men; and if by Saturn, the Sun or Mars he will be a fop, will put on a show of virtue and will not attend to the work of other persons. If at the time of birth, the Moon ocoupy sign Capricorn and be aspected by Mercury, the person will be the king of ki.ngs; if aspected by Jupiter, he will be a king; i( by Venus, he will be teamed; if by Saturn, be will be rich; if by the Sun, he will be poor and if by Mars, he will be a king. If at the time of birth, the Moon ocoapy sign Aquai·ius and be aspeoted by :Mercury, the person will be a k~g; if aspeoted by Jupiter, he will resemble a King; if by Venus or Saturn or the Sun or Mars he will be fond of the wives of other men. If at the time of birth, the Moon 00<-'llPYsign Pisces and be aspected by Mercury, the pel'son will be witty; if aspoctecl by Jupiter, be will be a king; if by Venus, ho will be learned and if by Saturn, the Sun or Mars, he will do wicked deeds. NotM. As stated in the last Stanza of the lut chapter, all that bas been said of the .Moon applies also to the rising sign. Digitized by Google J.78 DRIB.AT lAT.Ar:!, [OB, 19, The Moon by aspecting the several signs or the Zodiac except sign Canoer produces malefic eft'eots when such signs are rising signs. 4. If at the time of birth, the Moon oocupy the solar or lunar hora. of a sign, she will pt·oduoe benefio effects if She be aspeoted by planets oconpying respectively the solar and lunar horas. (a) I( the Moon be aspeoted by the lord of the Drekkan1\ occupied by her or by planets occupying frieudly signs she will produce ben6o eft'ootia. (b). The effects described for the Moon occupying 't.he several signs and aa.peoted by the several planets apply to he1· when she occu.pies the sever,,1 Dwad1U1flmSM and is aspected by the seve.ral planets, (o.) If the Moon occupy particular Navamaas and be aspected by the several planets, the elfec~s will be those stated -as follows. Not~. (a). If the Moon be as{>ected by planets occnpying horaa whose lo1·ds are different from the lords of the horas occupied by her the effects will be malefic. The same re.ma1·ks apply to the rising hora. (b). Tho ea.mo remarks apply to the rising Drekkaon. (o), The same remark holds with reference to the rising Dwadasamsa. If the rising Dwadasamsa be other than tnat of Cancer, and if the rising sign be aspected by the Moon the effects will be malefic ; if the rising Dwada.samsa be that of Caucer, and if the riliing sign be aspeoted by the Moon, the effects will be benefic, 5. If at the time of bhth the Moon occupy the Na.vamsa of Mars and be aspected by the Sun, the puson will be the protector of a city ; if aspected by Mars, he will be fond of tortu1·e ; if aspected by Mercury he will be skilled iu duel fight; if by Jupiter, lte will be a king ; if by Ve.nus be will be rich and if by Saturn, he will bring on quar.rtils, Digitized by Google CR. 19,] BRIR.lT JAT!KA, 179 If at the time or birth,theHoon oooupy ibe Navamsaof Ve~us and be aspeoted by the Sun, the perl!on will be a fool; if aspected by Ma.rs,he will be fond of the ,vives of other men; .if by Heronry or Jupiter he will be produce good literary works; if by Venus, be will be fond of com• forts ; if by Sa.turn, 110 will unit,e with the wives of other men, G. If at the time of birth, the Moon occupy the Nava.msa of Mercury and be aspected by the Saa, the person will be a duellist or a dl\noer; if a.apected by Mars be will be a thief; if by Mercury he will be a great poet ; if by Jnpiter, he will be a minister; if by Venus, he will be skilled in music and if by Saturn, ha will be skilled in meob,,nica.l arts. I( at the time of birth, the Moon occupy the Na.vamsa of Cancer and be aspected by the Sun, the person will be of small body ; if aspected by Mare, he will be a niggard and will possess small wealth; if by Mercury be will prao• tise austerities; if by Jupiter, be will be a chief, if by Venus, be will thrive by women and if by Saturn, he will be fond of work. 7. If at the time of birLh, the Moon occupy the Navamsa of Leo and be aspeoled by the Sun, tlie person will be a man of angry temper; if aspected by Mars, he will be liked by the king; if by Mercury, be will become 1·ich by the discovery of hidden treasure; if by Jupiter, be will cairy his orders into efteot; if by Venus, he will have no sons and it' by Saturn be will do wicked deeds. If at the time of birth, the Moon occupy tho Uavamsl\ of Jupiter and bo aspeoted by the Sun, the person will b~ a man of well-known powers, if aspeoted by M11,ra,be will bo learned in~ the rules of fight; if by Mercury, he will be skilled in,ridioule; if by Jupiter, be will be a minister; i£ Digitized by Google 1S0 DRIBAT JATAKA, [cu. 19. by Venus, he will be a mun of no virility and if by Satoru, lie will be ol1oritably disposed, 8. Ii nt the time of birth, the Moon occupy the Navamsa of &turn and be aspected by the Sun,\ the person will hnve very few children ; if aspected by Mars, be will be unhappy though rich; if by .Mercu1·y, he will bo h1tughty; if by Jupiter, he will do deeJs unsuited to hits staliou iu life ; if by Venus, he will be fond of bad women and if by Saturn, he will be a nigga.l'd (a). AH tl1at has been said fur the Moon occupying pnrticul41• Navamsas and aspeoted by the several planets applies also to the Sun-with this exception that where sola1• aspect ha!J Leen ref erred to, it shall be read as lunar aspect. NoteR. (a). The same remark applies to the 1·ising Navam~ sa as to the Moon-but if the Moon aspect the rising sign when the rising Navumsa is other than that of Cancer the effects will be malefic,· 9. ICthe Moon occupy a Vargottnma position, her own Navams", or other N1wamsas and be aspected by benefic planets, the efft-cts wiU respectively be full, imper.fect and small. Dot if sho be aspeoted by malofio planett1, the effects will respectively be small, imperfect and full (a). If the lord of the Navamsa be powerful, the effects described f"r platietary aspects in the ca!ie of signs and Navamsa.s(b) will alone oome to pass (c.) Notes, (a). The 11ume remark applie!i to the d1:1ing sign and to the Sun, (b). Nava.msas occupied by the Sun or the Moon or the rising Navamsa, (c), And those described for planetary aspects in the case of horas, D,·ekkana.s and Dwadasamaas. Digitized by Google 181cs. 20.] DRIBAT J.\TAX-'• CHAPTER XX. ·.,..: ON TJH PLANETS IN THE BHAVAS, . 1. If at the time or birth of a person, the sun oc.cupy the nscendaut, the per1mn ,vill be:fond of fight, slow at w01·k, without eight nnd wiLhout mercy; but if Aries be the ri>iiug 11ign and the Suu:oocupy it the person will be rich and amioted with diseases of the eye; if Leo ha the rising sign and the Sun oocupy it, l1e will be blind at night ; if Libra be the rising sign and the sun occupy it, Lhe person will be blind and poor ; if Cancer be the l'ieing sign and the Sun occupy it, he will hnve a mote in his eye. If the Sun occupy the 2nd house from the ascendant, the per11on will be greatly rich, will hnve his wealth carried away by the king and will suffer from diseases in the f•oe· 2. If nt the time of birth, the Sun occupy the 3rd house from the nscendant, the person will be intelligent and· powerful ; if he occupy_ the 4th house, the person will be afflicted with gt·ief and mental sufferings ; if he occupy the 5th hottse, he will have no eons and will be poor and if he occupy the 6th house, the person will be powerful and be subjugated by his enemy (a). Notes. (a). According to anothe1· reading, if the Sun occupy the 6th hottse from the ascendant tbepereon'is enemies, wilt meet with ruin According to Satyaehariar snob a person will be free from enemies, diseases and g1ief ; but the text has the support of Yavanachariar and Sqchidbwaja. 8. If at the tiine of birth of a person the Sun occupy the 7th hou~e from the ascendant, the person will eufftiL· digraoe at the hands of women ; if he occupy the 8th house, Lhe pe1·son will have very few eons and will become bliud ; if he occupy the 9th house, the person will have sons Digitized by Google 182 IIBIHAT JATAl'.A. [ca. 20. wealth and comfort (a). ; if he occupy the 10th house, the person will live in comfort and will be powtlrfnl; if he oocn.py the 11th house the person will be very rich and if he occupy the 12th house he will become an apostate, Notes. (a). According to another reading a person botn with the Snn in the 9th house will have neither sons nor wealth, Aocordingly Satyachariar says that such a persoo will do wicked deeds, will be afflicted with diseases and will attain an humble position in life, 4,, If at t_he time of birth of a person the Yoon occu.py ,he ascendant such person will become dumb or mad or an idiot 01· blind or deaf ; he will do mean deeds or will become a slave ; if the rising sign occupied by the Moon be Oanoer, A1·ies or Taurus t.he person will be rich, will have many sons and will be wealthy respectively. ICthe Moon occuppy the 2nd house from the ascendant, the person will be a man of a large family. If she occupy the 8rd house, he will daliglit in tortuting ~imals, If she occupy the 4:th or the 5th house, he will be in the full enjoyment of whuf. the houses signify (a). If she occupy the 6th house, the person fl'om will be of soft body, will have a dull appetite will be sparing in sexual union, will· ho cruel and will be slow at work. Notes. (a). That is, if the Moon occupy the 4th ho1168 from the nscenda.nt, the person, will be happy,will have kinsmen a.nd bouses, and will bt1 le11.1·ned; and if she occupy the 5th house, the person will possess . iutelligeuoe, sous auJ the like. (5.) If at the time of birth the Moon occupy the 'lth house f:rom the ascendant, the person will be jealous of the prosperity of other men and will be lustful. If she occupy tihe 8th house, the person will be fiickleminded and will be afflic~ed with diseases. If she occupy the 9th houso the Digitized by Google BllllU.T J.1TAu:; person wilJ be liked by ail Rnd wm have sons, kinsmen and wealth. If'ahe occupy tbe lOt.h house, be will be successful in all places, will be virtuous, wealthy, intelligen~ and valoroug. If ahe occupy t11e 1 Ith house, the person will be famous and will g,,in wealth nnd the like and if she occupy the 12th house from tbe asceudaut, the person will Le wickud and of defoctive Ii rubs. 6. If at)be time of birth of a person 1-fars occupy the ascendant, such per~on will possess a wounded body ; if he occupy the 2nd house, the pe1'8on will eat low me11ls; if he occnpy the 9th bou8f', the person will be a sinner nnd if he occupy the reml\ining hom1es (a) he will produce the s11111e elFecta as tho Suu in those places. Again, if at the time of birt.)i of a pt!rsonMe1·cury occu.py the ascendant such pe,·son will be lt•arued. If ho ot·cupy the 2nd house, the pe,·son will be wealthy. lf he occupy the 3rd house the perdou will be wicked. IChe occupy tlte 4th house, the person will be Jenmed., If lie occupy the 5th house, he will be a minister under a king ; if he occupy the 6th l,ouse, lie will have uo enemies. lf he occnpy the 7th house, he will possess a knowledge of law. If he occupy the 8th house, the person will be ronowned for his virtues. If he oocupy the 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th houses he will pro• duce the same efftic~ as the Suu in those places. Notes. (a). Thnt is the 3rd 4U,, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 10th. l 1th, and 12th houses. 7. Jf ut the time of birth of a person Jupiter occupy the 12 signs irom t.he a~oeud1u1t, such person will respeo· tivel• Le le,~hed, of ~od '.\j;':ech, a 11ifg~·d, will live in coffifort, will be if'ITrgeut, will h,,ve no i:emies,...J"ill possess qualitietsuperior to those of !Jillfath<'r, wiUclo <feed, 24 Digitized by Google 18'''. ,_ JllUR.lT JATUA· [ca. 2~. un.suited f;: his rank in life, will J>ef tvotee, will be ges.aesse~t? wealth, will be full 1if ·gnin aud will d6 raadul deeJs. 8. Ir at the timo of birth of a person Venus occupy the ascend1mt, such perlion will be skilled in nots of love and will live in gre1\t comfol't; if Vanus occupy the 7t.h house, tl,c person will be fond of qunrrels arid of sexual union; if Venus occupy the oth l,ouse the person will live in oomfort amd if he occupy the rt>mniniug houses (a) the effects will be the saraa as those of J npitor in those pluoes; but if Venus occupy sigu Pi~ces a.t tho tiu10 <>fbh-th tho person will become rich. Notes. (a.). That is the 2nd, Srd, 4th, 6~b, 8th, 9th, 10th, lHh and 12th houses. 9. It' at the time of birth of a person Saturn ocoupy the ascendant, such person will be poor, will be atffticted with •diseases and sexoa.1 passion, will be dirty will suffer muoh from diseases while young,aud will be of iudir1stinct speeoh. Dut if the ascendant, occupied by Sa.turn, be Libra, Sagittari, Cupdco1·0, Aquarius or Pisoas, the per,;O11.will be as happy ns n.king, will rule over· a villago or a town, will be learned uncl will possess fine limbs. But if Saturu occupy any of the other house11 (from the 2nd to tho l 2th} the effects will be the same 11s those of the Suu in the same places. 10. In de(ermining the effocts of the planets in the aeve .. al houses from the a.scenda.11t the natu1·e of such honsea slu~ll ba taken iuto nocou11t, that i~, whethe1· t.bo houses occupiuil by the several planets Ill'& their friendly sigus or • inimical or neutral signs or their o,vn housea or their exal• btion signs 1md t.he like (a). Again, ucco1·ding to Satya.churia.r, beneflo pl1lnets promote the bb~,·a-J while malefic oues reduce t.hem 1 but in the ouses of the 6th, 8lh and 12,b houses the ?ave1·10 i$ the caaa (b) Digitized by Google CB, 20,) b'fttHAT JAT.UU, 185 Notes, (ci). Thnt i" if the houses oconpio<l by tl10 planets he their exaltation signs, theii· friendly signs· or theit own l10uses the effect.a described will fully come to pnst1; if such houses be their inimicl\l signs the effect.a will fail and if the hou11es he 1umtr11l signs, ueither more nor less of tlte pflects Jcscl'ibed willcomo to pl\11R. All this i11accorcling to Gnrg11, (l,). According t,o SR.t,y11cllllrin,r,if a be11eflc plnnefl occupy the 6Lh house t,ho enemie~ will meet with min nnd if a malefic planet occupy it, the enemies will increase, Again, if a beuefic planet occupy the 8r,h house, a person will be freed fro,u d,rngerR to Jife I\Ud if a· mnlefio• plsnefl occupy it, danger to life will increase. Lastly if a beuefio planet occupy the 12th house there will be no loss to the person and if a malefic planet occupy it there will be an iucrease of losa. 11. If the planets to which good effects have been assigned occupy their exl\ltntion signs such effec~ will fully come to pMs. If they occupy their Moolatrikona Higus only three-foul'ths of suoh effects will como to p11ss; if they occupy their own houses one-half of such effocts will como to pas~; if they occupy their friendly signs one•qnnrtcr Of snch effects will come to pass; if they oce11p1, their inimical signs less tho.n one-quarter of such effect.a will come to pass nnd if the planets occupy their depression signs or if they l1appen to be Astangab\ pl11nets the good effects described will wholly fail. Notes. H tha E>ffectshe bad, then ff the planets occnJiy their dPp re i;si<1n 1-igns 01· if thPy be Astangatn plrmelR, the evil effect..., will fully come to p:,Rs. If they oooupy \heir inimi-· cnl signs, then t,hree-fourthR, if they occnpy their friendly l!igns, then one-l1alf, if they oc~upy t.heir own signs then one.q uarter, if they occupy their Moola T, ikoua signs, then less Digitized by Google l8G IIUH4T JATJ.U. (011. 1 than A qu11rter or the evil eft'ec:ts will come to pass. But iC they occupy theii-exaltation signs, thtt evil elf,jc•s will £ail CHAPTER XX[. Ov Tl'JK Pt\NETS IN Tilic SEVERAL VuaAH, 1. H" 11ingle pll\nat occnpy it-. o,vn honse ut the time of birth of 11. person such person will-possess the average dignit.y of the member!! of Ms fnmily; if t,vo plnnets occupy t}H!ir own l1ouses t.he"pl't'son will he nu important memhcr of his family; if three planets oecupy their owu houses, the person will be 1·e~pected by his kinsmen; if four planets occupy tbeir own houses, the person will be 1·ioh; if five planets d0 so lae will live ia comfort j if six, he will livo in luxurious en,e and as happy as a. king and if seven planets occupy theil-own houses the person will become n king . .Again if one or the planets ·occupy a friendly sign, the person will leo.d a dependent life; if two pl"nots do so 1ae will be proteclied by his fdend11 ; if three, by hi~ kinsmen ; if fonr, by his brot.heN nnd cott . in'I; if tivo, the person will i l1e a master over many p,-ioplt-i; if six, he will hecome a com.m audel' of nn nrmy uuJ if sove111 Ito will bt•o.,me 11.king .. 2. If n.t the t.ime of Lii-th or a person, A. single phmet occupy its exlllta.t.ion sign nnd be aspected l>y a friendly phu1et such· pet·sou will b~come I\ king; if 11.t. t.lae time of l,irtla one of the planets occupy its ex11lta.t.iou sign and b0 1u·compa11iml by a fritmdly planet, the person will be~ome very rid, niad will be uuiver~a.lly ri~spected; if ut tl,e time o[ birth oue of tho plnnetK oooupy "'iLhL•t·rm iuimicu.l or" dt,pression sign, the perlioll will beoome poot·; if two pla.uets occupy their iuimioa.l Ol' depressiou sigus, the pt:t·son will Locome afflicted with griuf, If three planets occupy their i11imic1il01· depression signs, tl1e person will become a fool. If four plauola do &o, tho person will become afflicted wi~h Digitized by Google OJI,'21,] BlUUJ.T IATUA .. U7 diseases. Ir flve planete~do ao the person will soft'er·im• prisonment; if aix pl11net8,j.the peNon ·will be a victim to mnch grief and i£ seven planets do ao, he will subject to torture persona who ought not· to be tor~ured. Notes. Mercury and the Sun cannot at the same time occup7 their depre11eion aigna-vi1. .Pisces and Libra reapeotive., ly. Seven planets cannot therefore occupy their depreaaion signs at tbe same time, In this as in cerb.in otber oases a.beady st:1ted, the author hu simpl1 quoted tbe vie\Ya of for.mer writers. • 3. According to 8atyachariar a person born who~ Aquarius is the rising sign will not be happy; but accord •. ing to Yavanaa, a person born when Aqunrius ia •he rising Duadaaamsa will not be happy. This latter view ia objet> .. ted to by VishnuguptR. on the• ground that eaoh sign of the Zodiac contuina the Dwadaaamgaor Aqnarios and that bffle. feiaZ effeot, liave been ascribed to sever&l signs. 4, A person. born when malefic planets occupy the aolar boraa of odd signs will be of widt,pread fame, will _do importan• deeds, will be powerful, healthy and of bright appearan~e. A person born when bene6c planets ~conpy tbe lunar h'>raa of even signs will be of gentle manne1·1:1· and of bright appea.rance; will live in comfort, will be liked by all; will be intelligent and will be or sweet speeoh. • 5, ICt.he_horaa ooonpied by the malefic and benefio planets be the same aa stated abov.e while the aigna are di£· erent, (a) the peraon will be 1Ll1·ullt has been stated above for the two yoga., in a moderate degree ; bot if both the horaa and signs be di~e1·.e~t (b) \be efl'ects will fail, Notes. (11). _.Jhat ia if the m,-tefio planets occupy the~eotar J101·aain tven etgna or the bene6io pJaneta occupy the. lunar horaa iu odd signs. , Digitized by Google )88 • ,:elllHA'l' UTAKA. cu. 21.] • • '(h) That ia if the maloft~' t>laneb ocoop7 the lunar hom-. of t.he even aigna or the benefio planets oocupy the iolar horaa of odd a' gns. N. u. Doth th1:1author, and Ollmment.ator have fa.iled to notice the c·,se of a person born when the malefic planets oconpy the lunar horas of odJ aigua or the benefic plaueta occupy the solar horGS of even ,aigna. Evidently a per11011born nnder t.ht>aa yogna wll be all tha, has been bta.ted in ~he 4-tb stanza in a moderate degree. . ~. A per1mn born when the Moon occupies either her own D1·ekkaua or a friendly (a) D1·ekkana will be of very fin~· b1:1auty and of well-known virtues ; but if the Moon oooapy·other Drek.kanas the person will be what has been Mt.a~•• above agreeably to the character of the lord of such· D1·ekk11na.(b). • • :,; ., ~; It' at thti tirne · of birth the Moon ocotipy a Sarpa (aet·pe~t) Drekkana (c) the person will be wi;:ked ; if she occuny an Ayodha (weapon) D,·ekkana (d) the person will do dflede ot torture ; if she occupy a Ohatushpad (quadruped) Drt:kk1tna {f!)·the person will cohnbit with his preceptor's '\Vife, 1111d if she oconpy a PAkshi (bird) Drekkoa Cf) the • persou will be of wandel'iog habits. . Notes. " . (a). Friendly at the time of birth. Vide chapter. II alii\nZI\ 19• • . . (b). That is. if snob lord be netural (at the time of hirth) to the Moon, the pe1•son will be what ho.a been stated iu " moderate degree; bot if he be inimical to the Moon, the eff,•cts will fail. '. (c). • Sarpn, Vyula Drekka11a.<1:These are the 2nd Drek •k ana ofCnncer, the 1st of .Vl'iscbika and the 31·d of Pisces (d). Ayndha D,·ekkanas: These are· the.1st and Srd Drtikk11nas.of At·ies, the. 2nd of Gemini, the bt of Leo, tho 2ud of Libra aud t.ho lat of Aquarius Digitized by Google 189 (e). Ohatusbpad Drekkanaa : These are the god Drl;lk:• kaoa of Arie:5,the 2nd and 3rd of Tauras, tho 1st or Cancer, the 3rd of Libra, the 3rd of Scorpio and the 1st of Sagittari.(/). Pkkshi Drekkanas: These are 2nd DrekknnB of Aries, the 2nd of Gewiui, the lat of Leo and t,lte 2nd of Libra. If the Drekkanns occnpied by the Moon be of mnre thnn ono chal'acter, the person will be all th"t has beeu stated for each character. . 7. A person born when the rising NavamRa (ci) is thnt of Aries will be a thief; when it is that of Tanl'ue, he will enjoy a,vay his earnings ; when it is thn.t of Gemini, the per"'.' son will bo learned; when it is thBt of C1111cerhe will be wenltby; when it is that of Leo, he will boa king; when it is that of Virgo, be will be hermaphrodite ; when it is that of Libra, he will be bold in fight ; when it is that of Scorpi0 he will earn his livellihood by carl"yiug Joads; wheu it is· that of Sagitari be will ·becomea slave ; when it is that of Capricorn ho will be a sinner; when it is tbBt of Aqa.arins, he will be wicked and when it is that of Pisces he ~ be fearless. Bat if the rising NavamAa be at the same time a Vargottma Navamaa(b) the person born will be the chief of the respective clMses of persons mentioned (c). The rising Dwadasamsas produce the same effects as the rising signs. Notes. {<i)• 'l'het1e NBvamsns of Aries, Taurus, Oemiui &c., ar..sNavamsnaother than those oft.ho resp1:1ct.ive signs Al'ios, 'l'aurus, Gemini &c. (b). That is Nnvamsas excluded in note {a). (c). For instance, the person will be o. chief of thieves &o. Digitized by Google 8. A person born when Mars occupies hie own Trim aamsa will be a manied man, )"ill be powerful, will wear Ornl\Dlents, will be generous, will he of bright appearauoo and will thoughtleBBly engage in work. A person born when S11,turn occupies his own Trimsam .a will be afflicted with diseases ; his wife will die before him, he will be wicked, will covet the wives of _other men, will be afflicted 'with grief, will have a house., clothes, attendants and the like and will be dirty. 9. A person born when Jupiter oconpies his own Trimsamsa will be rich, famous, happy, intelligent, of bright appearance, universally respected, free from diseases, of active habits and will live in lnxury. A person born when Mercury occnpies his own Tdm.samsa ,viii be inteUigeut nnd leurued in the fiue a,ts; will be a fop, a literary author, of distinct speech, will be skilled in carpentry arid the 'like, will follow the rules of life laid down by sages, will commence bold projects and will be much respected. JO. A person born when Venus occupies his own Trim.samsa will have many sons, will live in comfort.,will he free from diseases, will love mankind, will be rich, beautiful, wick.ed, of fail-body and will enjoy many women. A person born when the Trimsamsa of Ma.rs is occu.pied by the Sun, will be bold in fight and when it is occu. pied by the Moon he will be slow at wol'k, A person born when the Tl'imsamsa of Saturn is oocu.piod by the Sun will be wicked aud when it is occupied by the Moon, he will indnlge in acts of torturo, A person born wlaen the Trimsamsa of Japiter is occu.pied by the Sun will be of gocid disposition and when ii. is occupioJ by the Moon, tho pcr.1on will l>e•o oe rich Digitized by Google CB,. 22.] BIUHAT JA.TAICA, A perdon born when the Trim11amsa.of Mercury is occu.pied by the Sun will live in .eomfort aud when it is occu.pied by the Moon t.he person will be learned, I • • A person born wbeu the Trimsa.msa of Venus is ooc~.pied by the Sun, will possess a fine body and when it ia oocnpied by the Moon lie will be liked by the people. CHAPTER XXU. ON M1sc .LLANsous YooAB. 1. Planets occupying their own sigus or their exal_ tation or .Moolatrikoua signs A.re said to be Ka.rake. planettt to one a.nother, if, "t the Slllne timo they oooupy the Ken.dra.s from the a.soeuJa.nt. lu the above case ~ planet ocou.. pying the 10th hous0 from another plauet is said to be tlie special Ka.raka of that pie.net. Notes. In this "od in the next two st.aoza.s the term '' Karaka (helpiug) planets " is defiued. 2. Accordingly, if the 1·ising sign be Cancer and the Moon occupy it aud if M,us, Saturn, the Sun· and Jupiter occupy' theh· exa.lhtion signs, these four planets are known as Karaka i,l11ueta to one-auother (a). Again, to a . plauet oconpyiug the rising si'?n all planets (b) occupyiog the 10th or the 4th house are Ka.rake. plant-ts {o). Noles (a). In other wo1·ds Jupiter occupies sign Cancer which is nt the satue time the l'ising sign, Saturn occupies the 4th house Libra, Mars Lhe 7th house Capricorn and the Snn the 10th house Aries. 'fhe commentator infers from this st.auza that pla.nets occupying. their S1Vaktthetr11,Ucha and Mul11.trjkou11, are also mutually Karaka planets,signs if they occupy Kendl'a signs from one anoth~r thout;h not the Kendi·:, signs from the sscendu"nt. • • • A Digitized by Google 19! BlUEIAT J..lT.U:.&, [oe. 22. (l,). .AUthe planets wh~ther th~y occopy their own signs 1 their ex"lt,ttion Rigna or tbeit-Mulatrikonu. aigna or not, n.ccorcliug to the couimentator. (o). 'J'hat is the reverse does not bold. Iu other words the planet occupying the ascend,mt is not a Karaka planet of those occupying the 4th or the 10th house. 8. A planet occupying its Mulatrikona and exaltation sign (a) is uJso said to be a Karaka. planet to one that occupies the 10th l1ouse (b) from such sign, and to the lntter his Atimit1-u. planet is al1!o said to be a Karukn pl1111et. Notes. (a). But not occupying the Kendra houses from the aseond1mt. ·(b). This Jnttet• planet must be in bis Sw,\k11het.ra, Y,,tatl'ikon1, orexaltntion house. 'l'he eflacts of tbe K,1raka planets nre dt'scl'ibed in V11ra.ha Mihira'd work on Yog:L Yatra in which it is st11ted tbnt when a prince loses his kingdom, he recovers it in the Ant1mlasa period of a. K,uaka planet; again it is.said that a man enjoysco111fort, wealth and succe111 when the Moon passes through the house of a Kar,ika planet, 01· through the 2nd 'house ·from that occupied by the Sun. Also, that tl,e journey may be a sucoesKful one it shall be commenced when t,Le Moon occupies eithe1· of Lhe t,wo places meutioued above-otherwise the traveller will receive blows on Lis way. 4. A. pe1·son born when the ri1:1i11gNavamsa is a Vargottamu. one or when the Moon occupies a Vnrgottuma pC!sition will be happy nnd p1·osperous, The same 1·e111ark applies to 1\ pe1·aon at the time of whose bh·th ths 2nd house from the Sun ma.y be occupied by Leuefio planets or the Kendra houses may happen to be occupied by planetlt at all (a). Also, 11 pet-son at the time of who3e birth there are Karaka planets oocupying the signs of the Zodiac will be happy aud prospe1·0118,. Digitized by Google BRJBlT IA.TAD. 193 Notes. (a), ICone orthe Kendrl18 be occupied the 1>erson will be happy; if two or more be occupied he will be happier still and if the p1aoets be benefio the ~t·sou will be exceod.ingly happy and.prosperous. 5, ICnt the timo of birth of a person Jupiter, the lord of the sigu 01•cupied by the Moon, 01· the lol'd of the Mo1.mda11toccupy n Keudra house, such person will be hap• py when in liiii manhood. Again, if at the time or com• mencenumt C>fII dBSa period the lord of suub period happeu to occupy a Prishtoday" sign, he will produce his effects at the end of the pt>riod. Ir such lord occupy n. Sii-odBya sign he will produce his etf~ots nt the commenoemeot of the period and if he occupy a Sirn-Prisbtodayl\ sign, the efleots will be felt in the middle of the period, No\es. The Dasa period is to be divided into three equal parts aud the Sirodnya, P1·ishtodaya and Sirapdshtoda1a signs are defined in s~nza 10 of Chapter 1. • G. 'J'he Sun ancl Mars pt·oc1nce their. eff~o_tsimmedi-· ately after entering a sign; Jupirer and Venu6 when pass.ing through the mi<ldlo of n sign; Sn.t_urn and the Moon befo1·e qnitting a sign and Meroury througbou~ hitf. oou1·se, Notes. The sign must be supposed to be divided iuto thr1'.e equal parts of 10 degrees eactJ.. OHAPTER XXIII. On Ma.lefio YogRs. 1. If at the time of birth of ii.person the 5th and 7th houses from the ascendant or from the Moon be either Ot'onpied or a!lpected by benefic planets or ~y their lordst euoh person will have l'espeoth·ely s9ns (a) ~nd a wife-,-. .otherwise, (b) he will not have either the one or the other. Digitized by Google BRIHAT JAT.U:4, [re. 23. Ir Virgo be the l'ising sign and if the Sun occupy it, the person wiJl lose his wife ·provilled Saturn occupies sign J'i ..oPsat the so.me time and will lose his aons if Mars occupy sign Capricorn at the same time., Notes. (11.) One of 12 aorta of aon11(1) Oorasa, (2) KehetrajA, (8) Datta, l 4) Krittrima (5) Godhotpanna, (6) Apavidha, ( 7) K,meenn, (8) SRhodha, (9) Kreetn, (10) ·Poonarbhav", (ll) SwayamdRtt.aRnd (12) Adh11maprabhava. (b.) That ia if the 5th and 7th hou11e11from tl1e Moendant or the Moon be not occupied or aapeoted by benefio planet~ or by the Jorda of tbe honsea, If the Moon and S"tnrn occupy the 7th bou11e a perR011's wife will quit him and marry another., Ir the 7t.h house be upeoted by the Moon and Saturn the namber of wives of a per11on will be the number represented by the Navaman occupied b,!'tbe lord C?f the 7th hooae counting from the Nav~msa of Arie11. If Jupiter _or the Moon and Vena11 ooonpy the 7th house nnd the Navamaa or the Son or lf1.1,r11,the person will have a single wire; bot if the 7th house be a11peoted by the Moon and Venne, the pel'llonwiUha.ve 11overal wives .. · 2, If, at the time of birth of ~ person, malefic planets occupy the 4th and 8th houses from Venus or if malefic plllnets be on both eide11 of Venus or if Venn!I be not ac.companied or aepected by benefio planets the person's wife will die by fire, by fall or by ropes respectively. Notes. Provided, in the first Yoga, Verina at the same tirne ocoapies An Agni (fiery) Orekkana, in the second a Nipata (falling) Drek.kana. and in the third a Paaa (rope) Drekkana. (Vide Chapter 2i on the Drekkaoas.) 3. If, at the time of birth or a person, one of the two houses, the 12th and the tSth, from the ascendunt be o~u-Digitized by Google CR, i3,J BIURAT JATAl:4, pied by the Sun and the other by ·the Moon, lhe person and his wife wi11eRoh bave a sioglo eye. Again, if Venus and the S-nn (a) occupy one of the three houses the 7th, the 9th and the 5th from the ascend,mt, the personlqwm be of~~ detective limbs. '\ ,J'.Ju>les. (,i.) Venaa or the M.mn aooordiog to some. Thie ill opposed to Garp whom the oommenlator qnot.ee. 4. If, at the time of birth of a person, Saturn occnpy tbe rising sign (a) and if Venu, oco11py the Oh11kr11-salldhi Navamsas and the 7th honse, the person's wife will be b11rren(b), provided the oth house is not occupied by benf'fic planets. Agnin, if the malefic pl,mets occupy the 12th n11d the 7th houses and the ascendA.nt and the waning Moon ooonpy the 5th house, tlto person will have neither wife nor sons. Notes. (a.) n ia oleArth11t the ri11ing aign muat be T,uiru11 or Virp:o or 011prioorn in which oat1ethe 7,h honns wil1 N111peotivel7 be Scorpio; Pi11ne11and Cancer and the N11.YAm11M these11111h of th~ hou11es are known as Ohakra'landbies or Rik:sbASandhies (Vide stilnz• 7 Oh. I.) {b.) Ir •be peraoowill marry Rg,in, be m117 get sous ao.cordin1t to aome. 5. If, at the time of birth of a person, Ventl8 occupy the 7th house from the ascendant and be in the va.rg" (division) of Satnrn or M"rs and be aspected by Satnrn or • Mars, the perfton will commit adultery. Ag"in, if when Venus occnpies t.he va.rga. of Saturn or Ma.rs and is a.qpected by Saturn or Mal'!I, t.lu, Moon, Saturn and Mars occupy the 7th house from the ascendant, both the man and hiR ,vife will commit adultery. Again, if when Venus and the Moon occupy a sign, Saturn and Mars occupy the 7th house from the ascendant, ihe pet'SOn will ha.ve neither wife Digitized by Google 19ti BBJBA't IATAl:A. [oB, 28, nor sons. Ag11in:, if, wl,en male aud female planets occupy a sign, 81\tlll'II n.11d Mnt'S cwcup~· thtt 71h house from the a.sce111i11nt, bts .nspectt>d by person's111111 heuefio plnnets, the wife will be of advanced age and the man will marry late in life. 6. If nt the time of birth of a person tl1e Moon occupy tlie lOt.h house, Van us the? th hou"e nnd t.be mul,.fic pl11nets the 4t,h honsi>, such a pen1on will deatl'oy hiR family. (a) If, at thtt tima of birth, 9tLtnrn occupy a Ktt11dra house 11nd aapf'ot IL sign t.he Drekkana of whoats lol'd may b~ OOliupied by Mercury, the person will heoc,mea pniuter. If, at tbe time of binh, Venus oompy the 12th houaefrom the nsoen• dnnt nn,I thH Navamaa of 8,1111r11, the pt>t'SOu will be the son of 1L StH·ving wo1oau; and if nt the· timo of birth the Sun amd the Moon occupy th., 7th houie nnd be o.spected by Saturu, the pe1·sou will do dled:1 uusuittid to his rank iu life. Notes. (a.) The fllmily will b,,oome t'Xlfoot with him. 7, If, nt the time of bit-th ot' a person, Venus n11d Mars ocuupy 7th from tho 11So~11cl1L11ttho lwuso n11J ho aspectl,d by ma.lolic plnotJts 11Uch per1:1on will be 11fflictud witb sw~lling illutiss (a). It', ,,t t-lie t.in,e of birth of a person, the Moon occupy the Navum.'1&of ~nuoer or Scorpio aud be aoo11mp11.ufodby maldic planets the ptirson will be a.fflictecl with di1:1e1lsesof t.he genital org1rn. If, at the time of birth, the Moon occupy the asc~ndaut, Saturn n.ud Afore occupy the l'.!tlt and 21111hooae:s and the Sun the 71ih honse, the pt-t·son will be afflic1,ed wi1,h white leprosy. If, at the time of l}irth of a.pen,011, the ~oon occupy the 10th house from the ascendant, ~la.1·s the 7Lh house and Saturn the 2ud house from the Sun, such pt-rsoo will be of dtlective limbs• Notes. (a._) Sooh as elephaotiaaiaaud tho like. Digitized by Google OIJ, 28.] .BRJRATJAT.lJU, 197 8. Ir, at the time or birth of n person, the litoon oconpy a place bet.ween 811.tnrn and M"1·s an,J the Snn ot•eopy sign CRpricorn, suoh per11on will be affliol<id with a.~thmn, oonsnmption, 1t11d t.be diMP&"es ~,r the splet!n ; and if Rt tha timti of l,irth, the Sun occupy lhe 11ig11or. the Nav,uns" of ~h" Moon, the pel'foo will be 11fflioted with plumo11a1-y oonsnmpt.ioo, nn<l if t,he Sun and l,he M''>on occupy together eithtr Cancel' Ol' Leo, the pl'tsou will be 1·edoced to a skeleton. 9. Ir, nt the time of bil'th of ~ person, the Moon occupy the oth Navarnsa of Sagittari (a) Ol' the Nllvamsa of Piscefl, Cancer, Capriool'n, or Aries :b), und be either aocomp1t11ied or nspootml by 8,Ltnrn nnd MnrR, 1111011 pe1·11on will be nfltict.Ekl with leprosy , c). Ag,du, if lhti 01,h or tho 9th laouse from the nacend1lnli bo sign Scorpio, Cancol', 'l'am·us, 01· Capricorn and be eit,her oconvil'd O'.' n-.pected by S1,tu1·n u.nd Mars, tho person ,vill also be afflicted with leprolSy. Notes, (a.) That ia the Nnv11m11a,,f Leo in aign S11giUari. (b.) 'l'hese m11y be NAv1tmR""of 11nyeigo. (e.) Acom·ding to Yavnu11chary11,if the Aloon be Mpeofed by be,wfin pl1111et.11 RlRo 11t t.he &1\1110 tinu~, the pe1·eon will be or di116go,edbudy resulting from soratolii11g. IO. If, at t.l1etim~ of birth of•~ person, the Sun, the Moon,M11rs aml Saturn occupy t-he 8th, 6th, 2nd nud 12th bout1e11in any way, such p1•rson will become blind by causes pertaining to the mo:st powt-rful of t.he four planets (a). Not.es. (a.) If the pnwerfol pln.uet be the Moon, blindness will be oa1111edby phlegmatic a,tft•ot.ions. 1' Ht11,hplanet Im Mar11, it will be. ca,o.-edby bili11us deo1,io11R ; if it be \he. Sun, . then ,\>y heat or wood ; and it it be Sat.urn, i, will .beo&.oaedby wiudy affeotions, by ,&Lones and like •. Digitized by Google JUUB41' UT.A.It.A.• (cu. 23. 11. If, nt the time or bit·th of a person, the malefio planets (a) (locupy the 9bh, 11th, grd and 5th ho11sea aud be not aspected by bonetic planets, such parson will becowe deaf by causes pertaining to the most powerful planeb ; if such malefic· plani:t>t (b) occupy the 7th house from the asceodaut, the pe1·son will be of deformed teeth. Notes. (ci.) The Sou, lhe Moo11,Mara and Suto,·n. (b.) That ia, WMle N11•pyi11gt.he.~ 1-kl\SN... MJ titb ).....,. attdnot uapeoted by beue6o plauelit. 12. If, ut the time or birth of a pe1-so11 the eclipsed Moon, occupy the rising sign and if Saturn and !ifura occupy the 5th aud 9th houses from the uacendant such person will be subjeot to the iufluence of gho,;ts, Ag1tin, if, at tho time of bii·th, the' eclipsed Sun occupy the l'ising sign and if :::iaturn and Ma1·s occupy the 5th and 9th houses from the ascendimt, the pe1·son will Jose his eyes. 18. If, at the time of bhth of a person, Saturn occupy the 7th house and Jupiter the ~Cendant, such persou will be afflicted with windy complaints; if, at the time of birth, Mars occupy the 7th houi.e and Jupiter the usoeudant, the }>arson will become iusu.ue. If, at tlu, tiane of bia-th, Su.tu,·n occupy tbe ll80&nda11tantl Ma1·s occupy the 5th, ?th or 9,h house, the i3eraon will become an idiot. Aleo, if, ut the time of bit-th, the .waning \:loon and Saturn occupy t,he 12t.h house, the person will al110 become au idiot. H. If, ab the tillle of bh-th of a person, one of the four plunets-tbe lord of the Nllvamsa occupit,d by the Mc.on, thu Sun, t.he Moon, and Jui'iter-ocoupy t.he Navamsa of the lord of his dupreasion sign or an inimical N11vamsa, sucl1 per,mn will tiel"Vtl uude1· other men for hia livelihood ; if two of t.he fou1· planets oocupy either the oue Nu.vamsa. or Lhe othcl', he will become a slave ; and if tb1·ee of the Digitized by Google •B• 23.] DRIHA.T JATA.lU .•. 199 planets or all tho four occupy the one Navamsa or the ot.her, the person will be the son of a slave. 15. It, at the time of birth of a person, the rising sign be T"nrus, Aries or Sagittari an<l if male6o t>l,mets aspect it, snob per11on will have ugly teeth ; if, at the time of birth, one of the malefic signs (a) or sign Sagittari or sign Taurus be the rising sign I\Od if sur.h sign be upected by malefic pl,mets, the person will be bald-headed ; if the Bun occupy the 9th or the 5th house from the lisoendant and if lie be Mpect.ed hy malefio planets the person will bo of weak siicht; if, at the time of birth, Sat11rn,oocupy the 5th or the 9th honse and be aspected by malefic planets, the per.son will ho nfflioted with various diseMes ; l\nd if at the time of birth, Mnrg occupy the tit,hor the 9th house n.ndbe aspect.ed by male fill pl11nets, the person will be of defective limbs. Notes. (a.) These are the signa of Aries, Leo, Scorpio, Oapricorn and Aquarius, 16. If, at the time of birth of a person, the malefio planets occupy the 12th, tith 2nd, and 9th houses in any way, such person will suffer imprisonment and restraint of the natore of the rising sign (a)• Aga.in, if, at the time of birth, the rising Drekka.n11 be either a Barpa. (b) (snake) Drekkana or a Pasa (c) (rope) Drekkana and if the sign (d) of its lord be Mpeoted by roa.1e6c pl11nek the person will alllO anffer imprisonment of the nature of auoh sign. • Notes. (11.) If the ri11ing sign be Aries, T11urus or Sa.giU.11ri,the person will be boundwith ropes. If t,be 1·i11i11g G1emiui,sign be Virgo, Libraor AqnariaR, he will be loRded with fetters. Ir the ri11ingsign be Oanoer, Oaprioorn or Pieci,s the pel'lloo will be shol op in a fortreaa bat will be taken care of. If the rising .ign N aoorpio, the person willbe kept in a sabterraoeao cellar. B Digitized by Google l!RIHAT 1.A.TAKA. [cu. 24. (6.) The Sarpa DrekkBnRB: These are the fir11t Dreklcaoa of Ca111:,cr, the 1st aud 2nd of Sol'opio, and t.be 81'd of Pi11cea. (e) 'l'he Paaa Drokkaua: 'l'hi• ia the lat Drekkana of Cnprioorn. (cl.) That is, ir the rising Drekkana be tl1e first Dt'eklcana of Oauoer for instance, the lord of aoob Dre,kk.na is the Moon whoas aigu·agaiu i11 O,~noer. Ir the 1·i11ingDrekkaua be the 2nd l>rekbua of Ca11cer, its lord ii1 Abra whose sign ia So,>rpio and if it be the 3rd Drekkana of O1&uoer,the lord of aoob Drekkaua is Jupiter whose sign ia Pisoe11. 17. If, at the time of birth of a per.-too, the Moon be accompnnied by S1Lturu, aspected by M11raand be surround.ed by a l1alo, such person will be a man of har:1h s·peeob, will be afflicted with epilepsy aud with consumption (a). If, at tha time of birth, the Sun~ S11turn and M,us occupy the lOtb house from the &3CtmJant and if they lie not Mpected by benefio pltmets, the person will be a se1·vant of varying 1·auk-dignified, of moderate rank and of a low nmk (b). Notes. (ca.) It the Moon be 1ubjeot tot.he Bret of tbe tl1ree rnaleflo Yogas, the poraou will btt a aullu or ha1·11h11peeoh; if 11he be 11ub.jeo\ to the 2nd Yog11, the person will be afflicted with epilepay ; amd if t.o the 3rd Yuga, tbv person will be afflicted with oouaamp.tiou, (b.) Ir one of the thrd& planet.a occupy the 10th house the person will be a. dignified servant. If two plaueta oooopy. the 10th house he will be a eernut of middle rank and if three oooupy tho 10th house he will be a servantor low rauk. CHAPTER XXIV. ON THE HoBOIIOOPI OF WOMEN, 1. ' The same remal'ks apply to tlu, horeoopy of .women as.to tho horoto·;,py of men; \Jut the dTectswhich are sui~11blo Digitized by Google en. 24.) BRIHAT JAT.\lt'l. .201 will alone affect women and the teat will afft>ct theil' hus.bands. A1!cording to some all the effects (a) will nf!i!ct tho husb,,nd. 'J'he den.th of the husband sh"ll be determined from the 8th hou~e (from the ascell(l"nt) in the horoscope of a.woman. 11.Ltters connected with the pl;ysiquo of " woman shall be dutermined from tho rising sign a.nd tho sign occnpieclby tho Moon and matt.era connect_ed with bet· fort.1100an<l her busbaud shall be deteru.iued from the 7th house. Notes. (11.) Elfroi&which can be e11j,1ye•lby both will Rfl't'nt both. Boch eff'eotil M high appointments i11 Lhu st:,te will 11ffi:ct thtt hu11b"111IAnd 11111t.tersco1111eote1lwith tho body will HfTco, tho wom11nonly. He:,oe the advi&11hilityor a m"n marrying a girl born under excelleut planetary Yo,Ps, 2. If the l'ising sign and the sign occupied by tho ' Moon be even 11ignsthe woman ,viii be of a tl'Ue femiuine character a.ud if such signs be a.,pected by bent-fio pli,net.s she will be virttton11 a.nd modest ancl will wo,u· ornnments. (a). Butifsuoh signs be odd the woman will pos11ess a n111sculineshape and will be of m11..<1cnlinuch·1m::t1:Jr;nhtl i( they be eit.he1·occ11pied or aspt!ctetl by mnlelic planets shl:l will be wicked and possess few vh·tues (b)· Notes. (a). According to some, vi1·tneawil,Ihe lier ornnmentii. (b). If either the rising 11ignor t.liu sign ~co11pieJ hy tie J,fo,,n be 01ltl or even whilt1tlie othel' 11ig11i11 evt>n or nod, thu woman will 1111rtalceof the oha1•a,cter of " 1111\le"'"'· " ftlmnle. A Simil1tr remKrk 11pplies when one of t.l1t1 1-ig1111 iit uconpit-d or a11pec1eJby ii. mRlefioor" b11m,60 planet auJ tl11, c,thel' by a buut6o or a.malolio plnnet.. 3. When the rising sign or the sign oocnpied by tl1e lfoon at tho time of birth of a wom"n i:1 cithe1· Aries 01• Scorpio. if tho ri;:;iug Trimslunsa. or t\:le Trimsa.mso. occ11.Digitized by Google IBIDAT 1ATAICA, [cs. 2-i,. pied by the Moon be that of Mars, she will beoo!"e nn.chaste before marriage j ir it be that of Slltu1•0,-sl1e will lt>ad a life of servitude .. If it be that of Jupiter, she will be ohasto; if it b~ a.bat. of Mert:nry she will be deceitful and if it be that of Venus, she will be of bRd conduct. '4. When the rising sign or the sign oocupit>d by the Moon at the time of bfrth of a woman is either 'l'aurus or Libra, if the riiing 'l'rimsllmsa or the T1·imsa-n"a oconpied by the Moon be that of Mars, she will be of b"d conduct ; if it be that of Saturn, she will Murry a second time; if it be that of Jupite1· she will possess good qualities; if it be that of Mercury, she will be skilled iu music and dance and if it be that ofVeuus, sho will possess all good quali.ties and will be of wide-spread fame. Again, wben the risiug sign or the sign occupied by the Moon at the tiuie of bit-th or a wom1m is either Gemini or Virgo, if the rising Trimsam'.sa or the 'l'rimsamsa occupied by the Moon be that of Mars she will be deceitful; if it be that of Saturn ehe will partake of the n1tture of a hermRphrodite ; if it be that of Jupiter she will be chaste; if it be that of Mercury she wi11possess many good qualities and if it be that of Veuus, 11hewilJ, out of lust,.commit a.dnlte1·y. 5. When the rising sign or the sign occupied by the :Moon at the time of bi1·th of a woman is Cancer, if the rh1i11g 'J'1·imaama11,01• the 'l'rimsamsa occupied by the Moou be thnt of Mars she will be of an independent 11at111·e;if it be tlmt of &turn 11he will murder her husbaud; if if be that of Jnpiter, she will poS!iess many good qualiLiell; if it. be ti.at of Mercul'y she will be Hkilltld in workH of art aud if it bo thali of Venus 11he will be of bail conduct. Wheu the rising isign 01· the sigu occupied by tho Moon at th& time of bil'th of a woman itsLeo, if the l'isin!{ '£1·ims.. amsa or the 'l'rimsamsa occupied by the Moon be that of •Ma.rs, shti will be of a masculine· nat111·0. If it be t11at of Digitized by Google CB. 24.] BRIBA.T JATAB:A, 208 Saturn she will commit adult,ery ;·if it be tbllt of Jupit.er she will be the wife of a king;· if it be that of Mercury, she will be of masculine nature aud if it be that of Venus 11he will commit adultery with a person of low caste. When the ri11ing sign or the sign occupied by the Moon at tlae time of birth of a woman is either Sagittitri or Pisces if the risir,g 'l'dms11m81l or the 'l'rimsu.m,:1a oooupi~d by the Moon be that of Alo.rs,she will po11sess rn"ny good quulities; if it be that of Saturn, she will not indulge much in sexual union; if it be that of Jupiter she will possess many good qualities; if it be that of Mercnry she will be a woman of ki1owledge and if it he that of Ve11u3 she will not be cha.!lte. When the rising 11igu or the sign oecupie,t by the Moon at the time of birth of a worn,m is either Capricorn 01· Aq.nA• rius, if the rising Trimsnmsa Td111118.m11aor the occupied by the Moon be that of Mars she will lead a life of servi• tude; if it be that of Sa,tiru she will join a person of low caste; if it be that of J11piter she . will be chaste; if. it be that of Mercury she will be of bad conduct and ifit be that of Venus she will be barren. 6, The effects described for the rising Trimsams11,or those described for the Trimsamea occupied by the Moon will come to pass according ais the one Trims11msa or the other is the more powe1·f ul, 7. If, at the time, of bit-th of " woman, Sa. tul'n and Venus occupy each other'd Nav"msa and aspect each other or, if the rising sign be either 'l1aurus or Libm nnd the rising Nu.vamsabe that of Aquitl'ius, the woman will quench tho poisonous tire of her strong lu'itful desires by means of oLher women assuming a m11Sculiuecharao~er. 8. If, at the time of birth of a wolDlln, the 7th house from the rising sign or from the sign occupied by the Moon be not occupied by planets,. and if such house be weak and Digitized by Google :!0-l BUIHAT JATAl:A• not "8pecte<1 by benefio planets, the hos band of the womnn will be wick .. d; i.f such 7th hou)le be occopied by Mercury the hnsbaud will be a hermaphrodite; ir such 7th bou~ be a mova.bltt sign, the husb"nd will bt1 travelling in t'o1·uig1l lan,ls (a); if such 7t.h house be occupied by the Sun, the wom,rn will be rejcctei.l by her hu!ib&nd; if i~ bo ocoupit,d by Mun a.spected by malelic pl1\11ets, she will becomtt a. wiclm, while young, aud if it be occupied by Saturn nspeo• ted by ma.h,fic planets she will rema.iu unm,lrried to an olJ age. Nutes. (G). If it be a fbed 11ig11 the hnab1uul will remain in ftia pl11oe and if it be a common i;ign,he will t,rft.vtil to foreign lunds but ~ill be retorniug to hi11place ev111·y uow and then. 9. If the 7th house, from the rising sign or from the sign occupied by tho Uoon at the time ot' birtli of 0:wo,nan, be occopied by several malefic planet>1, the woman will be.come a widow; if such 7th house be occupied by several beneffc and malefic pl,mets she will quit her husband And , mnrry another person and it' such 7th hou~e be occupied by a malefic planet (a), be wua.k, a.ud be Mpected by n bonefiu planet (b) the woman will be rejt,cted by her hm1bnn1l. If Venus anil Mar.::1occupy each other'.::1. Na.vumsa the womnu will commit adultery ; and if the 7th houso fro1u the risiug sign be occupied by the Aloan, Venus aml .Mars, she will commit aJuhel'y with tbe premissio11 of her hus· Laud. Notes. (a). Either the S1111or.Ma1·11or Sut.nl'JI. tb), Ei,horMercary or Jupiter orVoun~. 10. It' at the time of birth of a womu.n, the rising sign be that of Saturn (a) or Mars (b) anil if it bo occupied by the Muou &nl.l \:. euus und uspccted by malefic plu.uets, the Digitized by Google • CII, 24-.J BRTJUT JAT!.K, 206 womnn and her mother will Olmtnit adultery; iCthe setting N11.v1unR11 setting sign be napec.be the.~of Mnl'l3 and if the ted by Satum, the woman will posses."!a disenseit genital • organ ; 1111dif the setting Nav1'111sn.he thl:\t of 11, benefio planet the wom,m will possess a tiue genital organ and will become an ogreeable wif~. Notos. (a). Cnpriooroor .Aqdal'ius. (b). .Aries or Scorpio. li. If, at the time o[ bii·th of a woman, t.he setting 11i~nor the setting N;iva11111" he thBt of Saturn, the husband of t.he womu.n will be 1ut olJ .man aud 1, fool ; if such sign or Navamsa be that or Mara, tho husbaml will be of irl\Soible temper bnt w·illbe attached to l1is' wife. If suoh sign or Navamsn be that of Venu~, the h'1sband will be beautiful and fond of his wife; ir 11110h sign or N"vamsn.be that of Mercury, the husband will be learued uud iutelli.geot. • 12. If the setting sign or the setting Navamaa at lhe time of birth of a womau be that or the Moon, the hus.band will be full of lustful desires and of a quiet nature. lf such sign or Navamsabe tl1at of Jupiter, the husband will possess courage aud other virtues aud will have a oon• trol over his passions and desires; if suoh sigu or Navamsa be that of the Sun, the huaband will be of very soft nature aud will engage in many works (11). Not.ea. (ca}, Aooordingto some the reading of tltis port.ionof the ted is RGtikarmainstead or Alikannca,·in which caao the meaning is that the J1111baud will indulge macb in 11e:saalanion. Aga,iu i£ the 1otting 11igu be thal or one planet and the aettiug Navamaa be tl1atof another planet., then, the e8'eots described for 1uoh sigu or Navamn,, whiohever is powerful, will oome to pasa. Digitized by Google BllltAT JATAKA: [ca. 24. JS. Ir, at the time of birth of a woman, the rising sign be occupied by the lt:oon and Venu., the woman will he envious of the prospe1ity of other persons and will be greAt-ly mindful of her oomfort,a; if the rising sign be ooou• pied by the Moon anJ Me1•ou1·ythe woman will be learned in the fine urta, will be in the enjoymeM of oomfort and will possess ma11y Jrood qualities; if the rising sign be occupied by Venus nnd Mercury the woman will be beautiful, maoh Jiked by her husband and learned in music, vocal and in.strumentnl; if the rising sign Le ocoupied by the Moon, Mercury and Venus, the woman will be in the enjoyment of immense wenlth and comfol't and possessed of lll"ny good qualities. If the rising sign l,e oocupied by Mercury, Jupi• ter and Venus, the same remarks apply. 14. If, at the time of birth of a woman, the 8th house from the ascendant be occupied by a malefio planet, the wo.man will become a widow and the widowhood will occur in the AotardHsa period of the planet whose Navamsa is oo• oupied by the lord of such 8th house, If the 8th house be occupied by a 1nale60 planet and if the 2nd house be oo-' oupied by a bcnefio plauor. the woman will die before her husband and if the Moon oooupy sign Virgo, Scorpio,T1111:. rns or Leo, she will bave very few sons. 15. If, at the time of birth of a woman Saturn be neit.her po,verful nor weak, the Moon, Venus and Mercury be weak, and the Sun, Mars and Jupiter be powerful and· if the tisiug sign be odd, the woman will be of a masouline cha1'11.0ter(a). If, at the time of birth of a womau, Jupiter, Mars, Ve.nus and Mercury be powel'ful and if t.he rising sign be au oven Sign, the woman will be of wide spread fame, will be vastly learned and learned also in the Soeince of Divinity. Digitized by Google • CH• 2.5,] !0.7 Notes;. (a). According lo some 'the !woman will'enjoy inaDJ•Jnent 16. lf, nt the time of birth of a woman, the 7th honse r.,om the rising sign he occupied by a malefto pl&net ~llile the 9th hom~e is oocnpied by some planet, the womnn, \Viii without doubt bcoomenn nscetio of the class belonging· to the planet oocupy\Dg snch 9th booee (a). All that has been said in this chapter npply f;o the posi• tions or the planets at the time of pt'omiae or ··gift of girl in mal'l'inge, of such gift and _of marriage (b), also at.tho. time of query. • • • Notes. (a). And the of.her eflects: already· described will fa.ii~ (b), Provided snob effects do not clash against 'the e1l'ects dP.1111ribodin the cl1apt.era on Ma1Tiage, • (vide Chapters 100and 103 of Brihat Sambita).·. . . . 1·'.' CHAPTER XXV, ON lli:ATtt. I. If, 11t the time of birth ol a pe1·aon, the 8lh homo I f{'otn lhe riKingsign be unoccupied Rnd be aspected 'by,a powerful planet; the person will die of an excess of the bu• mour belonging to such powerful planet (a).The pat'tof ~he body attacked will be the part which such 8th house repre. eents in the body of the K&lapurusha • (b), If several pla .. nets aspect the 8th house the ptll'L of tho body ·will ba suhjPct to several attacks resulting· from au· :·e:xoess of the various humors belonging tosuob po~erful planets• and.death will ensue .. But.if the 8th house be occupied by the Sun, the . death of the person will . be caused· by fire ;. if. it be (?Coupied by the Moon the death will be caused by•. water'; ifby Mars deat,J1will becao13ed by, weapons;.if by; Mercury it will bi caused by .fever; . if by. Jupiter it .will be ca~aeci ~ Digitized by Google !OS BUID.IT J!TAl'.A. l>ysome unknown disease.; if Venus, it "HJbe caused by thh-at; and if jt bo occupied by Saturn de11,U1will be caused l1y sL11rvation (c) . .Again, if the.8Lb house be a movable 11ign fJ1~ pel'SOD will die in foroigu lands j if it be l\ fixed sign he will die in his own country;. and if it be a common sign he will die on hi&waj~. • Not.es (a). Planets ... Hamor '.!,'he' 811n .......... :Bile-. 'l'he Jlooa .. , .... Wind & '. • , ' fJ ,·LA, • . ph lt>Jim liars ........... ,Btf'h~ell\n, lJe1·oary ...... .Ale three lanmors. Plnn~ts ... ,;, ... • Jaipitet• ... :..... Venus, ........ , 81,tnro ... •.. • ... , Humor • Phlt-gm ,vi11d & phlegni • Wiud ••• (b) Vi~e:1ttanr;11,4 c\u,pto_r,1. (a) .. If the pl,met be powerful there will bo death wl,ile.tie persoi1· is'·ongaged in a good wo1·k ; ir ilbe planet be. weak tleatb will ensue while the pet·&onis e;,gnged in a bad_wol'k and i( the planet be neither powe1·fnl nor weak t.be penou will die while eng11ged in a work el indift'ttrent ohar11ote1•, 2. lf nt the time of birth. of a person the Snn and lMarsoccupy \be 4th or the 10th house from the rising sign the 'person , will dio boing stl'nck. with at~moa. 1f the 4th, 7bh and JU~l1hon~es be respl1ctivoly ocpupierl hy Sa.turn,. tl10 Moon and Ma1'..s,the person will die by falling in.to a ,veil. If the Snn and Moon oocopy Rigo Virgo nnd if they be aapectE1d by a m'Llefio planet there will be deuLl1 caused by the person'd kinsmen. If the rising sign be ft eomlJlODsign and if it. be occupied by. the Sun and the lloo11 there will. be death by :d1·owning. . . : . · • : • . : • : • S. Ii, nt the timef.1·th' of a person;· Saturn ccoupy sign Cancer ,md the ·Moon sign capricoril tbe person ,vill die from an attack of dropsy.·· If the Moon occupy sign Aries or Scorpio and Lo between malefic pl,mets, dt1ath will be cansed by weapons ·or by firo. If the Moon oco,upy sign Jirgo nnd 1,e between malefic planets death will be caused Digitized by Google (l[I, 25-] 20, by a corruption o( the bloo,l or, _by \YA,nt oC blood. U .the Moon occupy sign Oapricorn or _Aquariu_aand· be betwee11 malefic plaMis, thet"e wiil be°deatii by ·harigirlJ,: by nf'o'c>r by, fnll, •4. ICat.the time of. birth_ of a per3on, th~ 5th or • the 9th l1ouse be ~onpied by twG. male&c plaiJel-s. and it snclt plaueta be noh.upeoted l>ybenefio 1>la11ets· the' pet'IJon ·will meet hia deaU~ 'by bein'g' ·abtit up 'Hi a ·prison ot: by other restraint. If the 8th hon!!e from the' ri1Ht1g afgn : ooutain " Sarpa 01· Nig~la :Ot·ekkana (a)deatb will also -~esult from imprisonment or other reatraiut •. If Vjr~o be,tlle 'Hb house from the ascen_dant and if it be cocupied by .the Moon accompanied by a bone6o planet, iCVenue occupy sign .Arie11. and the S,in the rising sign, Lho persou will die iu his owa houae and suoh death will be caused bya womna, • -Note$~-.; : ' : . :(a,) _:Vide ~otea io_~tanza 16 o_r~~apter XXllI .• _ _ &. If, ali the time of birth of a person, (1) the 4th ho.use (1·om the ~Qen_dant be occupied by Mars or the Sun and i(U1e10th hon_se be occupied by Saturn or, {1) if the Sun, l~,lt~, S~ttirn·nnd the Wflning· l.foon occupy tho ascend.ant, 'th~ • &th house and the !Ith houao ·or, (8) if the Sall • oc~opy the 4th' hon~e the 10thnnd if Maril whidh. C'Clilpies house he nflpeeted by the woning Moon, the person will die in each cnso boing st.abbed with a spenr. .Agnin, if the Snu occ·u1\{ th'e 4th house and if Mu.rll, whicli ro'.lupi.?s t-he 10th, •hottae; :be'aspooted :by 'Snhtl'h; the. person' will die being struck with a piece of wood. • .6, . If, at the tin1e ~C birth of a per.Jon, the 8th, 10th, 1st, _and 4Lh ho11ses ho oecopieci rospocUvely by the waning '_Moo1i,M:arii, Snturn and tho Snn, the person will dio being ainick with ·n club'~~ ~tick. • If the lOth,'\'tb, :1st nnd 5th 'houses bo occupied respectively by the wa11in1 Moon Mun, Digitized by Google 210 JIBIH.lTJ.A.T.ll!, [cu. 25, Saturn and tbe Sun, the· death of the peraon willbe callSed by smoke, l>y fire, by imprisonmeni or by blowa. 7. If, at the time of birth ora person, tJ1.-tth, 7th and l~th houses _be respectively occupied by Mars,the Sun and Snturn, the person will die by weapon11, by fire or by. the . kiog .. If the 2nd, 4t4 and lOtb houses be respectively occupied by Saturn, tbe .Moon and Maril, the person will . dio _of 11oros aud worms. • • ·: 8. If, at tho time of birth of a person, the Sun occupy tl,e 10th house nnd Mars ooonp7 the 4th house, the peraon •will die in consequence of a fall from a vebiole Ol' convey.• once. Jf Mars occnpy the 7th house and the Suu, Moo?l and Saturn occupy the rising sign, the perso• wilt die beiag caught in a maohine. If (1) sign Libra be occupied by Mara, sign Aries by Saturq and sign Capricorn or Aquarius by the .Moon Qr (2) if the 10th, 7th and 4th houses be ,·espectively occupied by the ,vaning Moon, by the Snn and by lla1·s the person will die in the middle of excrement. t)•. lf Lho w~ning Moon 1,e aspected by powerful Mars and if Saturn occupy the flth house, the per11on will die of oiaousos nffecUng the privities {a)-the pa1·t afft1ct.ed will Le either eaten through by worms or cut wi~h1Jie lauct1, or burnt or blistQ-ed, . Notes. (a.) Sooh aa pile11and fi1tula iu the Pudendum :Moliebre. 10. IC, at \ho time of birth of a pe1'80D, the Sun and M•1rsoccupy the 7th house, Saturn occupy the 8th houso and the waning Moon ocoupy tho 4t.h house, tho death of the person will be caused by l,frds. If the 1st, 5th, 8th and 9th housos be occ,:upied 1•11::;peotively the Sun, ~rs,by Sa.tgrn 1111d LbeMoon, the person':t death will be caused by a fiul 1·:-,,m mouhl,4i11 lop, by an l\ttnck of lightning or by the full v.fa wall. Digitized by Google •JU.BAT nu:.-211 11. The cnuao of deat.h or a person wl,ose horosoop_o does not contain any of t,he Y ogaa ennmerGted above shall be determiued f1om the 2tnd Drekkana counted from the rising D1·ekkan" at the time of bMh of aperson ; and death. ~ill be onuRed by the Jo..d of auoh (22nd) I>rekkaua 01· by the lord of the sign of whioh lbe Dl'ekkana is a division, whichever i11 powerful, by w1,tor. fire or other means belonging to such lord (a). • Notes. (a.). Vide elGnr.a1 of this cb11pter. 12. Tl,e.place of death of a person will be that of t~e sign occupied by the Lord of the rising Navamsa (a) or ~t will be tho plnca of the sign of tho plnnet which occ,upiea the· 111mesigu as.that occupied b1 tho lord of tho i-ising Nav1Lm11aor it will lie the place of the sign of the, planet aspecUng the lord of the rising N"vamaa or it will be· th.o place of the sign of the lo1·d of the Navamsa occupied by the lord of the rising Navamsa (l,). Tho lictual pl11ce of death ahallha determined b1 a carot'ul examination of tho several point~. Tho period for which a person ,vill remniu .insensible beforo tlenU1 will be the time of oblique uoension of the porliou of the ri11i11gsigu below the horizon. If the rising sign be aapeoted b1 his lord, such pedoil will be twice, and if it be a-1pectcd by benefio planets, it will be throe Limes, the ti111e of such obliqu1t ascension (c). Notes. (a} Ariea-plaoe frequented bJ ,1,eep; Taot'Ds-pJace freq11ented by oxen ; Gomini-a house; Cancer-a well; Leo.a foreel; Virgo-water-bank; Libra-bazur or slore-houao; Soorpio-a ltole; sagiUarl-plaoo frequented by horses; C11pri.oorn-watery tl'acts; Aq1111ri11s-ahooeo; PJ,oee-wntery plaoea. 'l'ho above is general, . IC n dislino, place of denth be mentioned in connection with a Yogarolaliog to death, lhe d~tb will ooout•only in such a place. • Digitized by Google IUBAT .J.ATAK!, [011. 25. . _. ( 6,) If ~iff~re_l')tplA~ _o_fdeath are pointed out by different •planet., the pla~o''bi,i~1·1gii1gto' .the eign orthe mowt powerful )lla~et will be t!it>pl~o·e; of d81llh. Again, of the two sign11 of a phinet,'tbe pla~e!6ftiie Moolatrikoria sign will be the placo ot :death, • Aoo,~rdiug1to i111me{the plaoo of'death is· the partioular portio~·'o( 'the· liliilse belougiiig to the wost: powerful planet.111ohM the plao~ of 'vrorahip, tho bath-room, tho .kitchen &o· (vido atauz,1, I~ of Ohapter II.) . • (o.) If the 1iaing aign be aapeoted by its lord and by a benello planet tho ~oriod of i11aensibility will bt> 6 Hmea u long. . 18. If, ~t the timo' of birth of a person, the 22nd Drekkan~ f1·dm\He'risirig Drekkana be & fiery Drt1kkana (a) the body <5ftho -p~l'l!on after death will be bui·nt and 1-edu.oed: ·to asliea.' 'if the' 2~nd D1;ekkaua ho a watery Dl'ekkuna ' (b) 'tho body' ~all; beihrU~n into Wl\terj if such Dl'ekkan11 ·be:-~ Misra D_1;ekka11"·(c) the body wili_be neither burnt rior _thrown into water but allowed to dry up. If the 8th house contain a Sa.rpa D1·ekkana (d) the body will bo devoured by •uogti,}ickals; crows c.nd the like; Thus has been described ti10 change of the body after death. For a knowledge of the past and fnt,nra life of 1\ person and of the nature of euch liti-:i tho roadur is l'eftlri-eclto highe1· workis ou horoscopy. Notes.  , . , (a.)  .A 'Fiery_ Drekk~na is the Drekkana of a malello planet.  (b.)  A wRtery Drekkana is tho DrekkaDI\ of a bene6o planet.  (o,)  A_MiR1·aDrekk11on·ais the DrekkRoa of a bene6e pland  • occupied by " ~~l'e6°0 pll\nct &!\ 'well as tho Drekka.oa of a male6o plRnet ocoupiod by ·a beuefici pl11,oei. (,l ) Sar pa Drekkanas :-These are the lal and '2nd Drek. kn.nas of Canoer, the lat ~ud 2nd Drekkanaa of Scorpio and the 3rd Drekkann,of Pisces. Accordiog to Subhodhiui, the terms . Vyal" vnrgn.., is interpreted int, the Drck.knnas of Vyal~ • 's11rpa), G111dlll'a· (vuHuro), Kuh, (hog) and the like, Digitized by Google Bllll.lT 1AT.lLl, U. I£ the lord of the Drekkatia··oooapied by_ the Su11 or the Moon, whichever is powerful, be Jo1>iter, t.he person has come from Devaloka ; if such lord· be •either tho Moon or Venus, the person has coine from Pitriloka. ; if aucli lord be the Bun ot• Mar11, th6 • per~on bns • coma from· the• world of lower animals; o.nd if such lord be eithet· Saturn' or Met·cury, the person bas coine from the region or hell. . . ... JCthe lord of the Drekki,na occupied by t.he Sun or the Moon, whichever is powe1·ful, be in his exaltation sign anch la11tlife of the. per·son will be of an exalred cb:"1r11oter; if such lord ooonpy a plaoe betw~eu· tho· exaltation rind de• preseion signs the liust lifo will be one of middl~ importance J and if such lord occupy Jiia depression ~ig1,· th~· Just Jifoyf the parson will be one of a low olia.raoter. . • ... 15~ . If the 6~b ,md·the Stli houses be unoccupied; tl1e person will, after death, go t<~ the world 'of "tht, pl~net most powerful of the lords of the· Drekkan"s of such Cith and 8th hom,es (a) ; or the po1-aon will gt> to ihe ,votld of the· planet· occupying the 6th, 7Lh or the': 8th liou•~ (b). .Again, i£ Jupiter oooopy the 6th bonse or one of the Kend1n·bouaes· or the 8th bon"e aod be nt the ·sainef,ime in his exnltn.tion· sign or if the rising sign be Piece~ and Jupiter occupy it· and be in the Navamsa of a b~oe6o plane~ while the· other planets are weak, the person ,vill obt,nin Sulva.tiou after dea.tb. (c)_ • ' • '':' • ,. (a). Fortbe worlds.of the ~et;e~l pl!'n~t11, •i~e l1111tetanH, (l,.) If ,wo'~r more plan~t.s· .~oapy_ the 'Gtb, 7d1 a11d Slh. l10111ea, the poraoowill go Qf Ll14;t, po,werf.~lto t.be ,w~rld_ ~~~t of them. •,,. : (o): The next• world may·nlso be determined ·from the poettiou or the planot• at the' time t>Ccle&t.hasa,,,' lhu time of birth of a peraon. : Digitized by Google llllll'AT JATAU, CAPTER XXVI. ON LosT BoRoSCOPJ!:S, 1, When a pe1·son isigoo,·antof tbo tiuie o£lais concep• tion or birth, the time of birth .shall, when duly questjou.cd about, he determined fromJ.he Prasu11 L!lgna (a). If the Jet half of tl1e rising sign be out by the. hol'izon, the month of birth will be in the Utto.rn.y1m&(b) aud if.the 2ud half be cut by the hul"izon the ll}Qtttl1 will be in the Deksbi.1,aynna (c), '· Notes. (ii). Prasna Lag1111:the rii:ing sign ot the timo or qnery. (b). Tlttarayana: the 6 monLhs from Oa.prioorn to: Gemini. (c.), · Dekshinayaua: th1:16 months fL·om Cancer to Sagit.tari, 2, I( nt the time o! qaery the· first Drekknna of a sign· bf'gjn to rise, the sign occapied by Jupi~er at t~e time Lfrth will be the Prasoa Lagna itself.. If tl102nd D1·ekk!ln~ of a sign begin to rise at the time of query, the sign occ;iupi~d by Jupiter nt the time birth will be the_ -'>,h sign from tbe Prasna Lt.gnH; if the Srd Prekkaua ofa sigu b~gin to 1·ise at the time of qoe1·y, the. sign occupied by Jupiter at the time of bh·th will be the ~th sigu from thePr1181\na.L,~gna(a~.1'he yoar of birth shall then be determined from _the appearance of the person (b). If the Sun· occupy the. P1"asana. Lngna or if the D1·ekkan11 of the Sun rise at the time _9f query, the Ritu(11,pe1·iod of 2 months) of birth will beGreeshma( whe11 tbo Sun pa:iscs thl'Ougb Gemini and Canoe1·); nud in the Calle of other planet-~ their RituR h1,ve beon mentioned eli1ewbere (c). '}f the Rita thus determined do' not bappon to be tho lm11 of 1ho· Aynn" already determined, tho correct Uitu shall be determiued as explaiued in the next stanza (d )· Notes. ,. :. 1 a, Io other wo1·d11,i( the ric1iogDwadaaamsa11,t U1e time or query be the first, the sign occupiedby Joptier at the time er birth will be tLe P1·asaua T•gua itself; ii ibo riafog Dwada.. Digitized by Google nBtHAT .JATAXA. 215 ""rn11abe tho 2nd, Ll,e eign oconpied b1 Jopiler nt lhe timo of birth will be the 2nd aign from the Prasoa, Lagoa,and ao on. 1,, As Jupiter takes 12 years to go rouod tlie heavenl!I, if f.he nnmber of oirooita passed through b1 J opiter from the timeof birth be koowo. the age ofthe person can be at once determined. J!or instance suppose J npiter t.o occupy sign Scorpio at the time of qnery and sign Taurus at the time of birth, and suppose him to be in his 4th ctrcuit. The Age of the person will be 8 X 12 + G or 42 years. The cycle of Jupiter can be determined from the appearance of the person-from a rough estimate of Jiia age. In the instance cited abo'fe the age of the person is either 6, or 12+6=18 or 24 + 6=30 or 86+ 6= 42 and so on. If however the cycle of 301,iter cannot-be euily ascertained tr.>m the appearance of the person, tho number of the cycle ahnll be determined from the par, of body tonchod by " person at the time. Io stanza 24 o( chpter ?Oof the Drihat Sambita, tho human body iRdivided into ten parts, each pad oorrespondiog to a Daaa period of 12 years, (I). Feet and ankles. (2). S111mksand knees. (8). The thighs and genital organ. (4), The loins 11.nd the navel. (5), The belly. (6). The brMqt 11.nd the bost>ma. (7). The shoulders. (8). Tho neck and lips. (9). Tho eyos o.nd brows. (10}. The forehead and thel,e"d. Sothat ifU1ebelleybe tnuohoo, it may be determined thal 8' the time of query J opit.er is in hiR 5th round. So tl1d the age of the person will be 4 x 12 or 48 yeare, plus the nurober of :rears taken by Jupiter to move from the Pigo ocoopied by him al lhe time of birth to tho sign occupied by him at the time of qoory. (o). • So th•t if the Son occupy the ProRna Lagoa or if the nrekkan11. • of tha Son rise at the time of query, the Ritu is Greoshme, Dig,.eedbyGoogle J l'RIIJAT JAT.lKA, [cH. 26 If Venus occupy the PrAana Lagoa or ir U1e Drekkana of Venoa 1·iae at the time or query, the Ritu ia Vasaota (when the Sao pauea throngh Aries aud Taoroa). Io the cue of Mars and hia Drekkana the Ritn ia Greeahma (Gemiui and Oancer). In the oalG of the Moon and lier Drekkaua, the Rito ia Varaha (Leo and Virgo). lu the c,a11eof Meroory and hia J>1·ekkana, the Ritu ia S1trat (Libr11, and Scorpio). l n the oaae of Jupiter and hie Drokkuna, the Ritu ia Hemanta (Sagitt.ar~ and Capricorn) ln the oaae of s~t11rn and Lia Dr11kkana the Rito ia Siaira (Aqoariua nnd Piaoea). If two or more plan~ta occupy tho P,·aana L11g11a, the Rito of the moat powerful planet will be the Rit11 of bii-tb, (d), Sappoae the ..Ayanadetermined from stanza 1 to be tl1e Uttarayana so that the month of birth ia one between Oap1·i-· oorn a~d Gemint Suppose the Praana Lagoa to be ooonpied by the :Moon whose Ritn ia Varaba (Leo and Virgo); in snob a onae, the Rito of Veuoa, the alterndive planet of the Moon viz the Vasauta. {Aries and Taurus) shall be determined as the Ritu of birth aa explained in the Srd stanza. S. If tl1e Ritu do not agree with the Ayana then the Ritu of the alternative planet shn.11be determiuecl as the Ritu of 1,h·th of 1\ person (a). Tbe Moon and Vonus ,we nlteruutive pl,mot.a. S" u.ro Mv1•c111·y u.o<l :M,u·s (b), a111lao Jupitor u.11J Si.turn, If the fh-lft bu.If of tho l'iliing Drekkann shonlJ 1·ise o.t the Liane of q11ery, the month of birth will be the first of the two months of the Ritu and if the second laalf shonlJ rise then the 2n<l month of the Ritu will be the month of bil'th. 'l'he date of birth shall be detem1ined from the portion of the ~alf Drekkano. that has 1·isen above the horizon. (c) Notes. (a), Thia point baa been already explained, vide note (rl) to the last stanza. {b), According t.o the oomment&tor Mercury, Mars and the Sunare allor11atiye planets. Digitized by Google ,on . .20.] tJIJS&T 1.lT.11:A• • 217 (c). Aa the baU1Drekkana ,rhiob may be rising at lhe time of qaery represents an the 80 da1a of .a month, if just one half of it should have risen above the horizon, the bidh must l,ave ·occurred jus• after 15 days of the mt'nth. Iu other word11, the date of birth may be determined from ihe portion of lhe half eign that bu risen above the hot·izoo by proportion. A Drek.kaua ia \0 dt>grees; half a Drekkana is 5 dPgrees aud a thirtieth path of a is 10 minute~ so that~very l0miuntes or the rising hat( Drekkana rept'88eots a day. U will be convenient if f.be LagM ~pbuta i. e. tba euct longitude in eigus, degrees and minotea of the point of the ecliptic cot by the horison be determined in U1e 61st instance (vide Appeudiz). 4. The Learned Brahmins in the Science oChoroscopy say that tl1e number of degrees pBSsed ovf.'r by tho Sun in nuy particular sign reprosents the lunar d"y at tho timo or birth (a). Ir the Pruna Lagna be a day-,ign tho birtlt will have occur,-ed at night and iCit be a m'ght-sign, the bia·tb will have occurred by day; the ghaUka of birth shall l>e determined from the portion of the rising sign that has· rjsen above the horizon (b). • Notes. (ii). Beginning from tl10 first ]un11r day in tl,o Moon's in.{)reasP, Suppose the San to occupy t.he 24th degree of Sngittnri at the time of birth. The iuoar d"y or 'l'itbi at the time of birtl1 js t.l1e 24th day from the first day in the Moon's iucrease or 24-15 or the 9th dny in her wane. (b). The length of the day or niglih of birth l-eing known U is represented by _t.he riaing iign and the Lngna Sphnta will give us the exnct proportion of the Sign that bll$ risen above the horisoo. Dy the Rule of Three we cau arrive l\t the enc~ time of hfrth from Snn-rise or San set Wben this is known Iho horoscope may be caat wilh the help of the astrouomical tnbloa or the Almanac. 'l'be 61d four· stftozu therefore give na •11 ompleto procou for the discovery of the time of birth of • OflOJl from lhePraauaL11gna. Digitized by Google 218 JJ&IHATIA.TUA. [cu 26. ,s. .According to some the lanar mot1thorbirth shall be determined from the Navamsa occupied by the Moon at the time of qaery (a)· Again, the aign oocupied. by tho Hoon at the time or bfrU.1 will bo either the P1·11sna.Lngna or the 5th house or. 0th hoase f1·om it whichever is most powerful. If it be diffloult to determine which of the thl'eo signs is most powerful, the sign occapiad by the Moon will be the sign represented by tbt> part of body or K"lapnl'llslia that may happen to bQ touched by a person at the time of query or the aign may be determined from the like indio~• tions oocurriug at the time of query(b). Notes. (a). Tho rule staled in the Text is very varae. What the author means is thus e.xplaiued b7 the commentator. Snppoee eaob Navamia. to be divided into 9 Equalparts: then,~ir at lbe time of query the plaoe occupied bJ the Moonbe De1oncl. tbe 4nd within the The lunar month will be (1). 8th part of the l 7th part of the N.•.-.SKar_tibm. Navarn&Aof A1·i011. ••• S'vamia, of 'l'l\nrus l. (2). 7d, pnrt of the t 0th part of. t~,o Na-SMargnsiraNamuma of 'l'aurus ... 5vamsaof Gewu,1 ... l. (8). 6th pArt _o~the} •5th part or the Na. S Po,uha. Navamaaof Gem1u1 .•• 5vamsaof Oauoer •••t (4). 5th pad of the l. • .4th part or the Na-SMagha. Navamaa of Cancer •••5 vamaa of_Leo •·· l. (5). 4th part of the l. 7th part. of tho Na-{ Pha)guna. Navamsa of Leo ... Svamsa of Vargo ... . (0). 7th Jl"!t of the l. 6th part ?f the N~ { Chaitra. ; Navamaa of Virgo ••• Svamsa of Libra ... N (7). 6th f pL9:rbtof the l. bth Pllfr~ or t_he ~•· { Vaieakha. . avamsa o I ra ... 5vamsa o ...corp10 •.• (8). 5th part of the l. 4th port of the Na-SJ htba lfaramsa .o{ Scorpio ... S v11we~of Sugituui ....l yea • Digitized by Google cu. 26.J JUUBAT JAT,HA, '219 (9). 4th p1ut of the } Srd part of the Na-f Aal adhe Navamea,uC!S&giltari... vamsa_of Capricorn • , .. l, 1 • (10). 3rd_ pad or the l. 2nd part of t~e Na-f Sravanll N. of Onpr1uurn. ... 5v11me,, uf Aqnar1os ... l. (11). 2nd partJ~f t-he} 5th pnrt ~f the Na-{ BhadrapadaNavams11or Aquarius .. , vamsa or P1soet1 . • •• (12). 5th p~rt of Lho l. 8th p~rt ~f tho Na-5Aswayuja.Nava1oaa or l 1aoe1 ... 5 vnmaao( Aries. ... l, • (b). For.instance, if, nt the time, o,eaturoarepresenting an1 of the aign• of the Zodino 1,a· seen or their eouode heard, ihe Moou will occupy snob sign at the time or birth. G. The eign occupied by the Moon at the time of birth of n person will be as many aignli removed from the sign occupiod~by tho Moon nt tho time of q'.lery as the Moon i11 removed from the rising t:ign nt the time of query (a), D1t if the rising sign be Pisces, then Pisces will be the sign occupied by the Moo? at the time of bii-th. (In oai;eof clonbt),_the_fiignsho.?1be dt:tel'mioeu by any_artioles of food tbat mRy be brought, any figures that mny appear or by any sounds that may be heard at the time (b). • Notes. (.a). For instance, anppoee Scorpio i11the rieing sign ond Pieces f.he ,i,ign '. occupied by the Moon at the time of query. F1·om Soorpio to 'Pisoes is 5 sign11; the 5th sign frorn Pii:icee is Oanoer, Cancer will therefore be tlte sign oocnpled by tho .Moou kt the time of birth or a person. {b), From articles l1aving the shape of, or in any way connected with the creatures representing the signs of tho Zodiac arid from the sonnda of tho like creatnre,the eign occupied by the Moon may be determined. lu all theae oases, it is a1111uro. •ed, that AD all-pervading Intelligent Ileing helps au astrologer by various signs and 11uggeetions. 7. The rising sign at tho time of birth will be tho sign of the lord of the rising Navamsa l\t the time of query (a). Or, tlte 1·iaing sigu at the timo of birth will be as Digitized by·Google DRIHAT JA.TAltA. many signs removed from Prasna Lngna as the D1·ekkana occupied by the Sun is removed from the rising J>rekkana. at the time of quel'y (b). Notes. (a). Snppoaing tbe ri,.iug Navamaa at tho timo of qnery to be that of Sagittari, thu 1·iaiug 11ig11 at the tbno of birth ia Sagit~ turi, (b). Sappose tho rlsio,r Drekkana At the time of query to be the 2nd Drekkana of aigu Gemini and the Drekkaua occupied by the S11nat t.be same time to be the 31·d Drekkana of Sl\gittari. 'J.'he number of Drekkanaa from the one to tho othet· ia 20. Therefore tho rising sign at the time of birth ia the 20th aign from Gemini; subtracting 12 f1·om 20 h is t~e 8th sign from Oemiui i. e., sign Capl'ioorn, 8. 01·, multiply the Sphuta (Longitude) of the plnnet or of the most powerful planet occupying tho 1·isi11g sign by tho number of inches in the length of the shadow of a twelve inch Sanku (a straight rod) plnoed vertically on a J1orizontal sm·fnce aud in the sun; divide tho product by 12. 'l'he remainde1· will give the rising sign at the time of birth (a). According to others, if the quereut be seated at tho time of query, tho 7th honse from Lhe l'i1:1iug.sig11 ut tho time will ho tho Lngna n~ tho limo of birt.h i if the que1·out be lyi11.gat tho time, the 4Lh house from the rising sign will be tho Lo.gna at the time of bit·th ; if tho querent be stan.din~ at tho time, then, the 10th houso will be the L,,gna and if ho be rising from his seat, then the rising sign itself will be the Laguu. at the time of birth (b). Notes. (a,) Snppoae tl1e longitnde of the planet, or, (whore there are severa.l plnneta) of the moat pow«nfnl planet oocupyiug tho rit,i11g sign to be 4, signs 10 degre0'3aud 20 minutes aud suppose the lengtb~of the shadow to be 41 iuches, the prodnot of the two uuwburs ia110 sigus lG degrees aud 30 wiuutos, 'l'bi:1 divhluJ Digitized by Google cs. 26.J J;RJB.1.T JATAK.A. 221 h1 12 gives as remainder 'l signs, 16 d,-greea And 30 minutes. The Lligna at the timo of birth is therefore the 8th sign from Arie,,, which is sign Scorpio. (b.) Aoaording to Subhodhini, the '1th, ,th, 10th and ht; J1011seeat·e not with reference to the PrAsna !Agna as explained by Bhatta Utpala bof; with reference lo the u.ign" obtained from the prooese given in the first h1'1fof the text, that is, from sig,1 Soorpio in t.he instance quoted io note (a). 9. If the rising sign at tho time of qnery b.e· Taurn11 or Leo, multiply the L,guo. Sphuta (the longiturle of the ascendant) by 10; if it be Gemini or Scorpio, then, multi.ply the sphuta by 8; if Aries or Libra, then by 7; if Virgo or Ct,pricorrr, then, by 5; and i£it be any of tlte remaining sig1111,thon by tho number of such sign from Arios (a). Again, if the pll\ne• occnpyiug the rising sign be Jupiter multiply the L!\gua sphuta by JO; iCit ba lfot·s, by 8; if Venus by 7; if any of the remaiuing planets by 5; if se\·er11l planets occupy the rising sign, then multiply tbe Lagna Sphutu. by the factor for each of such plauets. Add up the several pl'oducts and fiud the sum (b). Notes. In tl1is a.nd in the next stann the 11uthor sfnt.es a process for diaoovetiug the Nakshatra (a11teri11moccupied by the Moou) or the qnerent, his wire, brother, sou aud e'1emy. Tue fignrea given in the tcd are known aa those of Rasi GnHkara and Grabo. Gnoakara-Zodiacal and Planetary factors, refe1·rod to i11 the obapter on A.sbtakavargl'. (a.) For inRtance, if Oanoer be the Rign, it being the 4th aign from Aries, the far.tor for Oauoor i114, . 'l'he filcLor for f;lagi~tari is 9; that for Aquarius is 11 and tba, for Piaoes is 12. (b.) Suppose the Lagoa 1phnta to bo 51 10° 20' and sop.pose Jupiter And Vonus to ocoopy the 1·iai11g sign. Now, from t.he Langa Sphu&a it is evident tha, the riiiiog aigu is Virgo. The factor £01· Virgo is 5, mnlliplsing 5' 10~ 20, b1 5, wo get 26 Digitized by Google 222 :flRIRAT UTAKA, [err. 26 21° 40' Dividing this by 12 we get as remainder 2• 21° 40' (R.) AgRin; the f11ctor for Jnpitel· i11 10 and t.l1d for Venue is 7. llultiplyiug I>"10" 20' by 10 we go~ 531 13° 20' Dividing by 12 we goL as remniucer 51 18° 20'. Ag,,iu, molliplyiug li"10° 20' l1y 'l we get 87" 12° 20'. Divi,liug by 12 we get I• 12° 20'. Addiug tl,ia to 61 13° 20' wo get o• 2li" 40' (G), Adding together Rand G we get 91 Ji• 20. JO. Multiply this sum by 7, add O to tl,o product if the rising sign be a moveable sign; or substract O from the product if the rising sign be a co·nmon ono or leave the product as it is if the rising sign be a fixed one (t&), n;vide the sum 01• tl1e difference or the product as the ca.se may be by 27. The remainde1· will reps·esent the Ni.kshatra. of t.uo querent n.t the time of birth. By a bimil"r process applied to tl1e Sphnto. of the 3rd, 5th, 6th and 7th houses (b), wo sl10.llget thoNakshatr.ie of the querent'll brother, son, onomy and wife. Notes. (a,) According to Dbatla Utpala, i£ the rising Drekkan" lie the firRt Drekkana of the 11ign, 9 is to be added; if it be t.Jro 2nd, 0 noed neither he ndded to uor snbtrRcted from the producto nnd irit bo the 31't1, 0 is to be enbtraoted fro!ll the product. (b. If you 11dd 2 signs to Ll1e Lagna ephota, yon get tho sphuta of the Srd hooae which represents a persou'11 brother ; iC you ndd 4 signs to the :fJagoa ephuta, you get tho sphuta of tho Lth house whioh represents a peraou'11 son; ir you ndd 5 signs lo the L1gna sphuta yon get the aphnta of the 6th house which represents a peraon'e enemy and if yon add 6 signs to the Lagoa Fphuta, you get the ephnta of the 7th hoose whioh 1·epreaenb I\ person'11wife. lfoltiply the s&vera.l sphutas by the Zodiaoal fl\ctora of the several hoosos and by the factors of the planetP; occupying sooh l10011eR,add the products, multiply the 6UDl liy 7, Rdd oranbt1·act 9 if necessary, divide the sum or remainder \ly 27, the remainder will give yon the Nakabati·a. of tho scvcml parsons. Digitized by Google 223ca.26.] BBIBAT iATAl'.A• 11. Multiply the same sum (a) by 10, 8, 7, 5; add 01· substract 9 if necessary, as stated above.; -divide the reauU by their.appropriate nnmbers.(b) you will obt.ain the year, Ritn, Month, Lunar day, day ()r night;Naksh&tra,the ghatika, the 1ising sign and the ritting No.vathsa at the time of birth. Notes. In this and in the following t.hree·stauzu, the aut,hor stat.ea anoU1er prooeaa for discovering ~he y~r, m?nth ~-of tho birth of a person. (11') The anm obtained _at the end or stanza 9. (b.) These and the procellll of division will bo round ex.plained in the next three 11tanz&a. 12. • From the product of the sum by 10 shall be deter.mined the year (age), Ritu and month of birth (a); nnd from the product of the sum by 8 shall be determined the Po.keba (fortnight) and Tithi (lunar day) (b). • Notes. (a.) Thia prodooti·ia the flret of the fuur product.a referrpd to in the laal alanz~ with 9 ndded io0 or ilnbtraoted from· it. if • 11eceaaary. Divide the qnant,ity by 120, the remainder will give the age of. the. person. : Divide the, same quantity by 6, t.be remainder will give t.he Rit,n of· bMh from· 1Sisira. • Divide . the nm~ qnan,tit.y.by 2, the remainder will give ,.the first or the secondmonth of the Rita. , . , , . . , . : . (l>.) Thia produot is Ui:e ae~nd. of the roar prod110ta rererred to in the laa~ ai..usa with 9 .added or aubtraoied if neoes1nr1. Divide tbia quantity by t,ro, the remai.nder will .gjve.thefortoigbt or birth. Divide the same quantUy by 15, the remainder will gi.~~thela~ar,d,ay. :,,.,! ,,i''. ". 1 ., .·,i ··.,. :, . , ·, . l~.·, ,Fro~ the produ.otof the ~u,n by•. 7 sh~Ube deter..mined wh_e~herthe birth, ocourre<;l,f.y day or. by ,nigh;t,.a~d also the Nakshatra. ' ,,! ' '.,:: I • '. •"I' ·i •.. ; ! i0 ' ,r :I Digitized by Google BRIBAT ~A'l'AKA. [cs. 26, • Notes. • • • • 'l'his product ia· the Srd of the fonr products mentioued in the 1 Uh 11ta11s!\ with 9 Added or sobt,raoted if neoeaaary. Divide tl1e quantity by 2, the birth will have ooonr1·od by d11,y or night acoo1·ding as the Nmainder is.one or more .tba.u one. Divide the some quantity by 27, the remainder will give the Nakahatra from Aswini. 14. F1·om the product of tbe Sum by 5 shall be deter.mined the Obatik.u, the rising sign, the Ho1-a aud the risiug Navawsa at the time of birth. • J, •• Notes. This prodnct is the last of the four prodootH mentioned in slanzR. ll with 9 added or subetrnoted if necessary. Di-,ide tho quautity by tho now bur pf Ghatikas i11 the day or _nigh~ of birLh as thti cns13 may bo, the remainde1· will. give the Ghatika from Suo-l'iee or Sun-eet at the timG. of birth. Divide the same quantity by 12, the 1·emainder will give the ri11ing t-ign from Aries, Divide the quantity by two, the hora of birth will be· tl1e lat or 2nd according as the remainder is 1 01· mo1·e than I. Divide the qua.utity by 9, the. r~maiu~er will give the. uombc:r of the 1·i11ingNavawsa from the 6ra, Navu.mS11o sign,of the 1·i11i11g , Simila1·ly divide the qua.ntit.y by 12, the. remainder will giYe the number of the rising Dwaduamsa; divide the quantity by S, tbe remainder will giYe the rising Drekka.na . . N. B.-In all the above cases, it is evident that the remain.der will be in the shape of signs, degrees and minutes. 'fhe nno1ber representing the sign,, is the number rep1·eae11ti11gthe particular N11k11hatra,year, month, Pakilha, Tit.hi, Ghatika &o at tlie time of birth-th~ degrees and minutes only go to iuorease the number by uuity. 15. MuJUply by two the number of Matras in a person's name ; add the length of shadow to it; _divide the • aum by 27; the remainder will give the Nakshatra,at the time of birth, from Dhaoishta. Digitized by Goos I e 225eu. 27.] DRIHAT JATAKA. Notes. Th~ oRme ia the name given to a person at the Namakaraoa ceremony. A short vowel sound is oonnted as one Matra and:• long vowel souud is counted aa two, and a oooaonent is oounted 11a hair a Matra. The length or the shadow of a twelve inch Sa~kn shall be added iu iuohea. 1R. The Dik numbers are : East 2 8. East 8 South 14, S. West 10 West )6 N. West 2l North 9 N. East 8 Multiply by 15 the number for the Dik or direction which the querent faces ; add to the product the number of persons facing the same dik, divide the snin by 27 The remainder will give the Nakshatraof the person from· Dbanishta.. Notes. •This stanza contains another process again to disoover the Nakehatra. 17. Thus h:us been stated by me var ions processes for the construction of a lost horoscope. Intelligent pupils shall study them carefnlly and use them. CHAPTER XXVII. ON 'l'.ai: DauIUNAS, • 1. Th.e 1st Drekkana of sign Aries is a man with a. white cloth tied round his loins, black, facing a person as if able to protect him, of feaifol appearanc~ and of red eyes and holding an axe in bis band. Notes. Thia D1·ekko.nai11of the ~hape of a m11,nand ia armed, Mara is if.alord. Digitized by Google 226 onmAT UTAKA.• [cu. 27. 2. .According to Yavanachnrio.1· the 2nd Drekkana. of sign Aries is a womnn fond of ornaments "nd swectineats; with a pot-like belly, of tho face of n. horse, thirsty, and single-leggt>d. Notes. Thia D1·ekkana is of the shape of a woman a.ud of a qaadru.ped ; the face resembles that of a bird also. The Suo is its lord. 3. The 3rd Drekkana of Aries is a man of a wicked nature, le.arned in the arts, of a b1·own coloa·, fond of woa·k, failing in his attempts to carry out a work, holding up a stick in his ha.nd, dressed in a red garment nud angry. Notes. This Drekkana ia of the shape or a man and is armed Jupiter ia its lord. 4,. The lat Drekkn.nn. of Sign • Taurus is a woman with hairs out and growing in onrls, with a pot-like belly; ~reseed in a burnt garment, thirsty, and fond of food and ornaments. Notes .. TJ}is Dre~kal\a is of the _shape of a woman and carl'ies 61·e, Venus is its lord. 5. Tbe 2nd Drekkana of sign Ttt.unis is a man skilled in works conneot-ed with agriculture, grain, house, cows, music, dance, painting, writing and the like, skilled nt the plough and in works connected with a conveyance, with a. neck bent like that of the bullock, thirsty, with a face like that of the rum and dressed in dh-t,y garments. Notes. This Drekkana is of the shapeof both a man and a qaadra.ped, Meroury ia its lord. 6. 'fhe 3rd Drekkana of sign Ta.ul'lls is a man with a body 1·csembling that of nn elephant, with large teeth, with Digitized by Google BallllT JATA.K. 227 feet resembling those of the camel, of a brown color, ntlacbed to the ram and to the ouimals of the forest. Notes. Thia Orekkauais boLbo( hamao and qaadraped shape.Saturn is ite lord. 7. 'fhe let D1·ekkana of sign Gemini is a woman fond of needle ,vork, beautiful, fond of decoration, without children, with raised bonds, having attained puberty and full of lust.ful thoughts. Notes• Thia Drekkao•ie of the ahape of a woman. Meroary ia ita lord. · , · , . . . , . . . . . . 8. The 2nd Drekkana of sign Gemini' is a man .reeid .. ing in a flower gardon, wonring a mail coat, holding a bow in bis hand, fond of fight, carrying arr~ws, bis .face like that of a Garuda (Brahmani kit.e), bis thoughts d~rected ·to. piay, children, ornaments and wealth. • . . Notes This Drekkanais or the shapeof a man and is armed.It ie also of the shapeof a bird. Veuas is ite lord. 9. The 3rd Drekkana or sign Gemini is a man we1ririg ornaments, possesing many gems, wearing a m11ilcoat and tnr.get, carrying a bo,v in his hand, learned iu all the arts and a literal'y writer. Notoa. This Drekkana is of tbe shape of a man aod is 11rmed. $darn is ite • lord.· 1 O· The let Drekkana of Cancer carries leaves, roots and fruits, bas a body resembling that of the elephant ; lives in a forest near sandal t1·88fl, bna feet as large as that of the camel, baa a face like that of the bog and a neck like that of a horse. Digitiz~d by Google BltlRAT lATAl:1. [ca. 21.228 Notes. Thia Drekkana is of the al1ape of a quadruped. The lfoon is ita lord. 11. The 2nd Drekkana of sign Oanoor is a woman wearing in her head lotus flowers, carrying a snake, hard.hearted, young, cryiug in a fores, and holding a branch of the Palasa. tree in her band . . • Notes. This Drekkana is of the ahapo of a woman. Mars is it, lord. 12. The 3rd Drekkana of sigq Cancer u;a man sur.rounded by a snake, sailing in a boat in the sea on account of procuring ornaments for his wife, wearing ornaments made of gold and with a flat face.· Notes. • This Drekkana is one of the shape of a man and a snake. Jupiter is its lord. ls. The let Drekkana of sign Leo is of the shape ofa vulture and a jackaJ, seated on the top of Sa.lmali tree, resem.bling a dog in appearance and is also of the shape of a man dressed in dirty garments and aeparted from his parents and crying aloud. Notes. This Drekkana is or the shape of a man, a qnadrnpedand a bh·d. The Sun is its lord. 14· The 2n«l!Drakkano. of sign Leo is a man of the shape of a horso, W84'ring o. slii,:btly white garland of flowers in the head and covered with deer-akin aud fl!'nn~l, unapproa.chable like th~ lion holding a bow in his hand aud with a a hent nose, • . Notes. This Drekkana is of the shape of a man and is armed, J a piter is its lord. Digitized by Google oil. 27.] BBIHA,. lATAtl, '22'9 • 15. The 3rd Drekkaua of Leo is a man with the face ofa bear, the pranks of a monkey, 'wi•h·a olob in hia hand• carrying fruits and meats, with a Jong beard and whiskers and ~•th curling hairs, Notes.,.' Thia Drekkana ia or; the shapeor a man and a quadruped andis armed, :Marsis its lord. • • 16. The lat Drekkana oh:gn ·virgo ia ·a virgin girl car,·ving a pot filled with flowers, dressed in dirty garments and fond of clot.ha a.nci wealth and proceeding to the honse of bet· preceptor. • • • Notes,• Tliia Drekkanaia oft.be ahape,~f a woman. . Mercury is its lord, , 17, The 2nd Drekkanaof sign Virgo is a.man bolding a pen in his hand, black, with a cloth tied round his.head, examining items of receipt and expeuditnre,· with 'a O large bow in his h~nci and covered with hi.in{all over:his body. • • • I • • ,,f I. T ' ' • Notes. This Drekkanais or t.he shapeot a man and is. armed. Sa.' •• ! turn is ita lord, • 18. rhe Srd Drekkana of sign Virgo is a woman or yellow oolor, dressed in white silk ·carrying a pot andladle in her hands, pnre and proceeding to a temple. Notes,'•'· This Drekka~ it ~rthe shape or a' •oman. Venl18. ia ita lord. ' i,. . . ' . 19. • The lat Drekkaoa of sign Libra is a man hold:.ing a balance in one hand, .killed in weighing 11.11dmeaaur• ing, with a~icles in his hand flo be weighed or measured and with hie thoughts direct.ed to t,b& • de'8rmiDation • ·of the price of auch arUcles. , : ; , • • • Digitized by Google [911, 27. i,111;.Thii Drekkhna is oftbe shape of a·man •. Ve~u• is ,its lord. ,:i 1 :! •• ~o:! 'rbe ~ndDrekk~na ;~£ sigri' Libra i~; ~ "m~riwith the face of a vultul'e, holding a pot in hie hand, wishing to fall down,, suffering from hunger and thirst and with his thoughts directed to his wife and. child1·en. Notes. . 'l'bis Prekkaua is of the ehape of a man and a bird. Saturn is i~ lord. 2J. The 3rd Drekk~na of eign Lib1·a is a n1a.n with the face of a.horse adorned with gems, soaring animals in the woods oa1Tying a.goldet?, q11iver and wearing a mail coat, carrying fruits and meat, monkey-like in appearence and l1olding a bowin hie hand. Notes. 1 This Drekkaua is ofthe ehape of,-man and a quadruped)der.cnry is Ha lord. ' . 22 .. The Js~ _Dre~_kan~ of sign Scorpio ie a beantirnl w~1na.o,naked and without ornaments, quitting her place, lauding after a long sea. voyage an~ with a snake coilod round her lege, ,,: i· Not~e.: Thie Drekkana is of the shape:of, a woman aud a eerpeu,. Mara ie its lo1d ..... : ,,; ; ; • · .·. 28. The 2ud Drekkana of Scorpio is a woman wUh a . b~r. I,il~e that_o! a turtl, o~ pot~ desiring the comfort. or her plaop and _with a ~erpent coUed round her body on account. ·orher hµsbarid.· .,_.... ·•:_ • , •• ~ .... ·.,r., .r:.:. ,· ,u; .·~;-i:: .r ." • Notes;.,,L:L:,·1·1, . .J. ·.•!>,.;;:,•.)'It Ll,,,.. ;.~.. . ........ . , :I J J'Jiitt ,, :Pre~lf,~,. il!loC*ho . &Jiape of -woma~ and a ilerpeiit, J' upiter is it.alord. Digitized by Google .... OB, 27.] DBIHAT UTAKA, 281 • 24. The 3rd Urekkana of sign Scorpio is a. lion· with a broad nod a flat face like that of. a turtle, scal'ing dogs, deer, jackals and hogs in the woods and lol'ding over a couu.try al,ounding iu s1rndal trees, Notes. '!'hie D1·ekkn.11ais of the sbnpe of a quooroped. Tho Moon is its lord. 25. The 1st. Drekbna of sign Sagittari is a man with th~ body of a horse, wi\h a long bow in bis baud, stopping in bis hermitage aud watching over the several &1·ticles re.quired fo1· Sncrificial rites. Not.es. Thie Drekk.nu~is of tho 11hapu of 1.1,_1lll\1101111I\ qriadru11cJ nnd is armed. Jupiter is itt lord. 26, The 2nd Drekkana of sign Sagittari is a beautiful woman, bright as gold and the Champnka flower, seated on n. th1·oue of middle sizo, nod picking up the gems of the Sea, Notes. 'l'his Drekbna is of tl,e shapo of a woronn,liars is ita lord; 27. The 3rd Drakknna of Sa.gittari is a man • with u. long beard n.nd whiekers, of the color of gold and the chnm• paka flower, seated on a. throne with a club in his hand anc! •dr~ssed fuwhite silk and dear skin· Notes. Thi11Drekkauoa isof tho 1h11peof a man aud is armed. 'flie Sou is ita lord. 28. The fil'st Drekkuna of sign Capricorn is a. man coverd with ba.iN, at1·ong as the sea monster, with a body like that of a bog, wearing a. uose string and fette1·s a.od with a deformed fnee. Notes. Thie Dt·ekkn.ua is of tho shapo of n 11mu lc..adcd with feller,. Saturn is its lord, F Digitized by Google ....... 282 BRIIIATrJAT.lKA, [OH. 27, 29, The 2nd D,·ekkana of sig~ Capricorn is a woman skilled in the arts, with eyes like the black, hankering Riter various things and ornn.ments made of iron•  petals  of we the lotus, aring ea,;. Notes.  'l'liiaD,•ekkoa iH of the shape of a woman. ·Venue ia it,a lord. 30. 'rne 3rd Drekkl\na of sign C11pdoorn is of the ahapu of a Kinuara (aoeleatial being) covered with flannel, with a a quiver, a bow and a mail coat and carrying on his should.c1·sa pot set with precious stones. Notes. Tliia Drekkaua ia armed. Mercury is ita lord. 81. The lstD1·ekkana of sign Aqua,iaa is a man with tho face of a vultu1·e, with hill thoughts directed towards the guin of oil, liquor, water, and meals and dl'tlSSed iu flanue-1, silk and deer skin· Notes. This Drekkaua is of the shape of a man. Saturn is ita lord. 32. The 2nd Drekkana of sign Aquarius is a woman in I\ cat· burnt with tho woo~ of Salmali in it and collecting iron, li\'ing iu a forest and dressed in clirty garments. Notes. 'l'bis Drekkaoa is of the shape of a woman who oa1·ries fire. Meroary ia ita lord, 53. The 3rd Drekkana of sign Aquarius is a black man, with hairs in his ear, wearing a crown and carrying ba1·k, leaves, the oil of bdellium, iron and pots from one nlace to another. Notes. 'fhia Drekkana isof the shape of a man, Ve nus is its lord 84', The 1st Drekkana of Sigu Pisces is a man with tho vessels of l!act·ificial rites, pot.a, poarls, go1!1S and conch. Digitized by Google 283CH. 28.] B&IHT J&T.lLI. shells in bis hands, carrying ornamen_teaand sailing in a boat iu tho sea for the purpose of decorating bis wife. Notes. Jupiter is the lord of this Drekkau. £15,The 2nd Drekkana of sign Pieces is a womaa with a long flag-staff and banner, sailing in a boat to the·other shore of the aea accompanied by her friends and with a face bright as the Champaka flower~ Notes. Thia Drekkana ia of the shape of a woman. The Moon ia it.a lord: 36. 'Xbe Srd Drekkana of sign Pisces is a man with a snake coiled round him, standing naked on the brink of a pit in a forest, snfl'ering from thieves, from fire a:id from hunger and weeping, Notes, Thia Drekkt.na is or the shape or a snake. Mara is its lord.Notea.-The author baa stated the use of these descriptions of the Drekkanaa iu his Yatra. IC the Drekkana be of agreeable appearance, carrying fruits, flowers, gems and pots and aapeoted by benefio planettt, there will be auooea, If they be of hideous appearance, armed and aapeoted by malefic_ planets, there will be disgrace and failure ; if they carry serpents or fetters there will be delirium and imprisonment, The Drekkaoa deaoription ia also ot nee in tracing on, theivea aooordiag to Priihuyaaa11, son of Varaha Mibira, iu bis Sh&dpanohaaika, a work on Horat·y As• trology. CHAPTER XXVIII. CONCLUSION. . 1, 2 &8. In my work on Jataka I hAve treated of the following. Digitized by Google 2:34 llUIIIAT JATUa .• [oa, 27. C! .... 1. Definitions and '.Elementary principles: (Zodiacal) 2. Do Do Do (Planetary) 8. On Auimal aud Vegetable Horo,oopy. 4. On Nishoka kala 01• tho time or coueeption, 5. On M11ltors connected with bia·tb time. 6, Ou B~larishta or Early de1&Lb. '/. On Ayordayn. 01• the dote1·rnioation oClength of lifa. 8. On .Plllnetaay divisions and sob-divisions of life knowu ns Daaas aud Aulardasas. 9. On Ashtakavargaa. IO. On Avocation .. 11. On Raj11 yoga or tho bir1h of kings. }2. Ou Nabhasa;yogns .. 18. On Chandra 01• lunar Yogas .. 14. 01\Double pla.uetary Yoga11. 15• On Ascetic Yogas. 16. On the Naksh11tras or.the Moon in the asterisms. l '/. On the Moon in the severe.I signs or the Zodiuc, IS. On the Sun, Mars and other planets in £he severat signs of lhe Zodiac. 19. Ou planetary aapects.20. Oo the planot.a in the Ilhavns. 21, On the 1ilanets iu tlu:ii• sevoml Vargas. 22. On Miscellaneous Yogas.23. On Ma.lcfio Yogas. 24. On the Horseopy of women. 25, On Death.26. On the Discovery of a lost Horoscope.2'/. On the Drekkanas. I shall now give a. summary of the subjects treated of in my work on Yatra, 4, 5 & 6. Ch l. Prusna Prabhoda.. 2. 'l'itliibala. • a. Nakdhalrabhidhan11• Digitized by Google OR. 28.) DRUIAT J'ATAKA• 285 4. Vnrapbala. 5. Mohorta Nirdesa. o. Chandra B11la. '/. Lagua~Niscbay", 8, Lagna Bhedn. 9. Grahasudhi. 10. Ap11,vada. 11. Misraka. 12. Tanuvepana. JS. Gobyakapoja. 14. SwapnadhynyB, (DreBm11) 15. Suanavidbi. (hath) 16. Grabayojna. 17. Prnyana. ('l'ravcls) 18. Sakunnruta. 19. Vivabakala. 20. Grabakarana.(on the planets) The last of the above subjects has been separa.te)y treated of by me in my Astronomical work known as Pancha.sindbanta. Thus the three branches of the JyoLisbaSastra viz Asironomy, Horoscopy and Samhita have been treated of by me for the bonefit of intelligent students. 7. These brief works have beon written by me on a full study and examination of the ela.bora.te works of the an.cient writers. If a.ny important points 1:ie found omitted I crave the forbearance of the learned critics. 8. If any portion of the text be found omitted by the writer who copied or the teacher who taught, the learned will kindly supply the omission, setting aside all feelings of jealousy-Again, if there be found in the text errors, im.perfections or omissions, the lea.med will kindly make the necei:sary corrections and supply wbnt is wanted. 9. Vara.haMihira, the son:or the Brabmin Aditya.dasa from whom he received his education, obtained the boon of kn~wledge from the Sun in the village of Kapitha, Digitized by Google 236 . llBJUAT JATVU .• (cs. 28. spent bis days in the court of Ujj"yani in the province of Avanti and baa writ.ten this neat. work on horoscopy after a cal'eful examination of the wol'ks of the ancient sages on the subject. 10. I have been enabled to write the· present. work by the the grace of the Sun, of Vaailil.1tba, and of .A.dityadaaa, worshipped by me. Salutation to th@ ancient writers of boroacopy. BND. Digitized by Google ~PPEND:CX, -:o:.Beq11ired the Lagna Sphutam, that is, the Longitude of the Ascendant at 89 gh. 30v, gh. from Sunrise on ll'riday lhe 28th May 1886, for a place wbose.Lntitude is 11°. F1·om the Almanac we find that ihe Sun~entered 'l'au.rus' nt 56 gb. 40v. gh. on the 12th May, and quits the sign at 12. gh 27v, gh. on the 13th Juno. Therefore time taken by the Sun to tnove through sign Taurus = 8 gh. 20v. gh. + ~ 1 days+ 12 gh. 27v. gh. =_31 days 15 gb. 47v. gb, = 1,12,500v. ghs. Time from Sun-rise on the 28th M11yto the end of the Sun'd course through Taurus = 16ds 12 gh. 27v, gh. = 58,827V, gbs. Time of obliqne ascension oft = 5 gh. 6v. gh. Taurus for Latitude 11• J = 806v. gh. Therefore tirne of oblique ascension of the portion d Taurus to be passed over by the Sun on the morning of the 806X 58,827 . 28th= ----=2gb. 89v. gh. 1,12,oOO Subtracting this from 39gb. SOv. ih· we get time of oblique ascension or signs from Gemini= 89-gh. 80v. gh -2 gb. 39v. gh =St;gh. olv. gh. From Table B we find that time of oblique ascension of signs for Gemini to Scorpio =81 gh. 86v. gh. 'l'berefore time of oblique ascension of portion Sagit.tari that has risen above the horison. =36 gh. 51v. gb.-31 gb. 36v. gb. = 5 gb. 15v. gh. =315v. gb . . Time of oplique ascen:sion of the SO degrees of sagit.tar1 for Latitude 11•, 1a 6 gh. 21'1, gh. {Vide Table A) =321v. gb. Therefore portion of Sagitt.ari tba\ lhas risen above the 80x315 · horizon = ·-= 19• 261• Sagittari being the 9th sign321 from Aries, Lagna Spbntam required is 8' 29° 261. 'l'he Bhavasphut.am prooeu is too complioate<J to be given here. The Reader is referred to Baska1·aoha1-ya'swork en Astronomy. Digitized by Google TABLEA: Shewing the time of oblique ascension of each sign of Zodiac for places situated in Latitudes from Oto 52 degrees, in Ghafikas and Vighatikas: N. B. Aghatika = 24 minutes and a Vighatika=24 seconds. 1-1 ..... 0 ci5 N."" ~ -:?" C") 0 ~.rv 0 cg: N (1) Q. CY '< CJ 0 •a.!O 21 22 IS 24 25 26 Z1 l38 29 30 31 82 83 S4, 85 86 87 38 89 40 4,l 4,2 4,3 4,6 " 43 47 4,8 49 60 I261 152 2 4, 2 2035 s Ms~14, 80 1720SIS83S616 213 623 693332 39 17222787386514 ZS493 5781M 1740Z5298983M12 4,7 sa664,1 308'1 1681 27M689. 24,62 45281639 4!29"2'° 34M527 4,11 26%6 6041 164332M616 4,()24, 4,7 2643 1644M"" 36 89ff364, 3 50 4,64,6 37 274,l 15 2ll464,8 374,8 364, 1 14, 43 34 284,7 204743 4050364,7s 59 32 29404,6 60 14'4,2 18484,6 • 86 623 156 2987 804,9 4,6 69 13 1750688764, 26 81364,8 5 56 1413614,3 s 156 518761 " l!S. 82 24 sa6 64, 126 57 5S60ss 6 684,9 41. 2129 8354, lZ 106 03q s 57 6 536 04,()4,6 84,1~2611 86 8 666 0 5 5639 6 z4,3 38 14,23 866 11 5576 839 6 6 03741. 114, 3 8620108 5 694,0 7 6 6 3SI18 ' • 17 K 8710 4 09 11 6 04,() 610M86 3 614 8896 214 8 684,1 lll 9128232 3 1 394, 119 8 5613 17164,1 168029 4,0ll 6888 u1618 so 618al3826 4,lll8 44,8 7 4910 ll3 822212623 4,2603 1" 24, 610 4725 2723 "2419 4,S4744, 2 57681 124,6 27Z926• 2ll16 44,432 634 41144,6 3138 86292011 4,64,9 894 8786 89 164,6 83 87187 34 4634,24,2 M19404,7 368 4, 16 4,0 80 474,8 6 ll 804,6 224440483 • 0 "12 ll6 48364,8 6 0 276 61 254,3 6 616092 66 4,9214, 59 80286 65 286 63411 6 666l6I 61 16 607 0 264 68 18816 687 14,6 4, 8 5ll 6 52 2 11 612 207 6 57 8 186 M7 34, 0 6 63 6 57 7 6I 40 4," 66 6ll2 68 8 ll 156 387 ll" 7 87 117 286, 8 IS6 6 .... .... -(v ~ •  TABLEB:  Shewing the time of obliqueascensionfrom any one sign to any other sigrt of Zodiac for places whose latitude is 11°· _ Similar Tables can be prepared for other latitudes- I To From. Cancer. I Leo. I Virgo. I Libra. l8corpio. ,Sagittari1 Capri• I A9ua-I Pisces. Aries. ITaurus. , ~ni. corn. nus. I 1G. v. ·G. v. G. v. G. v. o. v. G. . v.G. v. G. V. G. V. ~; v. G. V.IG. v. f;() 026 34,30 34,I6 8 4,J 1520 29 35 47 46 36Aries. ... • 83 . 51 25 65 469 39 10 85 42 8Taurus. ... 60 15 56 81 14 86 42 46 52 61 13 65 276 60 21 1 126 1 ,J.6 76 29 81 3(1Gemini. ... 16652065 26 8 86 6i 60 2110 50 41 4654. 64 60 0 44, 6260 0 10 26 15 26 20 89 26 7 81 28 40 88Cancer. ... 5 21 l'f6 1749 25 ! 64 81 54, 89 5 i, JO & 26 7Leo. ... 15 18 20 46 30 56 85 17 89 8160 04l 4 ! 49 10 49 3.i, 60 O! 5 0 80 1215 41 21 2 25 51 84 26Virgo. ... 38 69 44. 5 M 55 10 13 10 4,14' 84 55 o;oo o 25 126 13 16 2 20 51 29 26Libra. ... 38 59 89 6 -19 55 39 21 60 0 19 59Scorpio. ... 38 52 44 42 5 28 10 49 15 S8 24. 1828 46 4,9 47 ,· 54 47 33 53 54 32 5 21 14 3123 JS 39 14-44. 19 49 19 JO 10 18 4oSagitt.ari. . .. 28 24 60 0 9 1038 58·48 58 49 11 18 24BS 53 4 49Capricorn .... 54 891 60 017 57 23 8128 3213 • R 44, 2:& 4 2118 14, 23 43 8 8529 4 34, 9 89 9 60 0Aquarius .... 49 60155 11 4 1413 58 19 :2 29 48, 34, 48 55 3940 1 60 024 43Pisces. ... 8 47 45 291 50 50 I 1-f :< 0 cg: N (1) Q. CY '< CJ a 0 -(v Table 0-Shewing.the Antardasa periods of the Various Nakshatra Dasas. :<I 0 cg: N (1) Q. CY '< CJ a 0 -(v VI TO FIND OUT THE CORRECT LOCAL 'l'IME. I. BY DAY. Dra,v a pretty-large semi.circle on el\Oh side of I\ well.planed and smooth oblongular plank. Plac1:1its edge along a straight line drawn ea.<Jtto west on a smooth l1:1vel~ronnd, the plank being inclined nt an angle with the plnue of the ho1·izon, equal to th1:1 complement of the latitude of the place, so that a st1·a:ght needle fixed 11.t the centre of the semi-oircle and Rt right angles to the pll\ne of the plank will point to the Pole and the pl11.11eof the plank will be parall~l to the plane of the eqniitor. 'l'he edge of nn ob• longnla.r piece of wood placed at the centr1:1 will eerv1:1as well as a needle. Now divi,le the eemi-ch·cle into 1~ t-qual pArts, ml\rking the points of division wit.Ii tho 6gurtts from 0 down to 12 ,md from 12 up to H. 'l'ho divii.ion:1 repre.sent the hours. It' t.he dinmeter be about a cubit in length each division may further be divided into 80 or 60 equal pa1·ts, so that the position <>f the shadow of the needl1:1will give the time within a minute. Now apply the equation of time and the result will be the local clock time or the me"n eola1• time req11ired. Thie can be o mve1·t,ed into Gh11.t.ik11.,<t Vi1;th,1tika11 sun £row tauleand from rise the shewing the time of sun rise for e1ch _<lu.y. Notes:-( l), The latitude of the place may be found from B pNtty good Atlas or it may be ascortained by not.ing the altitude of the pole-sta1· both at I he time uf its culmi.n ition and the time of its depression and taking the mean· (:t), The oomplt,meot of the Rngle of latitude may be marked on a piece of solid wuod anu the portion may be out out in the shape of n fine wedg-, a.nJ. made to support the plank of the inclined dial. (S) 'l'he e1ist and west lin1:1may be marked pretty oel'l'ect.ly with the help of a mariner's oompAas or it may be found by marking tho two points of contnct of the tmd o: the 11hadow of u. litr11ightNd fixe,l vertic1,lly at the centre of n cir9lu drawn 011 1• smooth, hol'iz,1ntul surface, with tho oii·c:umf1:1renceof the circle both before and after mid-day --tho line joining tb1:1 two p:>int.s bl\iog due enst and west. ( 4). A lev~l, horizontal ground may be prepared with the help of a spirit-level. Digitized by Google s.... 0 co a. N ~ ~ C") 0 ~.(v VIII. II, AT NIGHT.' Attooh equal weights to tho ends of a long fine striug and tl1row the string over two fiue metallic wires each about a f'oot in leugth fixed regi,lly between supports nnd a.t the height of about 5 or 3 feet f1·om ~'the ground, l'Ut111ingeast to west, nnd o.bout 5 01· 6 feet apart from ench other. Now tl1e two plumbliuos nre certuiuly vcrtic,tl,and tho plane-pass.ing through them will bo u.vertical plane. This plane may be 111udeto p1\SS through the Pole sta.r about the time of its 011lrni111\tionor depres:1ion by slightly moving the string . over one of the ,virei to the east or west till th& two plum.lines hide the Polo sta1• to n.n ob;ier1·er stationed 2 01· :) f\!ot to tho South ot' the southern plurnl,line n.nd :1ooking with 0110 eye, the 1otl1e1• eye·being clo3ed. We ha'l'e thus secured lhe pl11.neor the ~meridian. Now attach the ends , . of a slightly tight string to the two plwnblines. about theh.1nid~lle poiuts. 'l'Le observer may now lie down below, with J1h1 fuco tnmed up, the hcn.J supporwu by a pillow 0.11done cyo 1•h~c,•1l oxnct.ly u11dc1· tho two 1stri11gs ru11uiug 1101·Lh n.ntl souLl1 so that the uppe1· stt·iug is wholly conoeaJed by the. Jower and 0Lse1·ve the tl'auBit of stari3 a.o1·oss the strings· 'l'he Almanac givtis Lhe time of culmination of the Vernal equinox fol' e11cl1 day of the yea1· o.nd o.lso Lhe times nt which particnlur i,lal's culminate a[te1· the culmination of the vo1·ual equinox. If the two times be added, we get the timo of culmiuation of a particular sta1· from 12 noon tliat dny, Dut if the snrn exceed 24 houi·s then subtract from it 23 hours o.ud 56 minutes, the romaindl!l' will be tho time of culmination of tho Star ft-om 12 noon that day. Digitized by Google IX. l !:'nn's ICulmine .• , ISim's ICulmina• Month. l>ate. cnli;nin&• Uo~ of V. llot1tb. Date. ooli:nina-1tio~ ofV. 'l'~BLE E. Showi1'g the time of cuZmiMtiot1 'I/ tl111 Sun a,~z tht YIINICIZEqui,ao •. tion.  eqn1uox.  t1on  · eqnmox  h.'  "'· ,,.  ,n.  h.  111.  ,,.  m.  Jnnnary rebmary March April May  i '1 13 19 25 81 6 12 lb 24, 2 8 )4 20 26 1 7 18 JO 26 l 7 13 19  12 12 11  4 6 0 11 13 B 14 14 B 13 12 11 u 8 6 4 2 1 60 68 67 66 66 66  6 17 4, 63 "' 80 4, 6 8 42 8 19 2 65 2 82 2 8 1 44 1 21 0 67 0 81, 0 JO 23 43 23 19 22 65 22 32 22 11 21 47 21 2t 21 :o 20 87 20 ]3  ;fufy August Sepllembor , October November  6 12 18 M 80 5 11 l7 23 29 4 10 JG 22 28 4 10 16 22 28 8 9 Hi 21  ,12 12 11  4 r, G 6 0 6 6 4 8 1 [;.<) 57 r,r; 53 61 49 47 46 45 44 44 44 45 4G  17 6 16 41 10 17 16 5' 15 80 16 7 14, 43 14 lll 13 56 13 82 Ill 9 12 45 1'3 21 11 58 11 3.1, 11 11 10 47 10 28 10 0 0 BG 9 13 8 49 8 26 8 2  25 81  67 r,7  19 ]!)  60 26  Dccombor  27 D  47 l:iO  ·7 7  38 15  Jnno  6  68  1t)  2  0  G2  G  61  12  11  60  18  80  15  65  6  28  18  12  l  18  15  it  11  68  G  4  24 80  2 8  17 17  61 28  27  12  1  6  40  Digitized by Google X. '1'.ABLE 1': Showin9 th, timn~at ,ohich th, 1111,ral,tar, culminate a./t11t·ell, cul111i1M1tiono/ the V,rna.l Equinor. 'l'imea.Stare. h .. "'· Aewioi ... ... 1 48 :Sharani ... ... B Bo Krittika ... ... 8 40 Rohlui ... ... ' 28 Agni ... 6 18•··lfrigaelrahA ... ... 6 27 Ardra ... ... 6 4s Prajapati ... ... 6 49 Agaetya ... ... 6 20 lb-igal'y&ea ... ... 6 89 Ponarvaau ... ... 7 87 Puahya. ... ... 8 86 Aaleaha ... ... 8 39 Magha ... ... lO 0 Pulabt, ... ... 10 fi8 KNtn ... ...10 fill P. l•halguni ... ...11 6 U. Phalguni ... .. 11 41 Pnla11tya ... ...11 46 Atri ... ...111 7 Haat.a ... ... lS 26 Stare. Timea. Angira11 .A.par A}ll\mvat Ohitra VnaiebttA l,lariohi Swat.i Vienkha Auuradha Jyeehta IIoola P. Aahadha Abhijit. • U, Aahadl1a Sravaua Sra.viahta Sataya '. ... ... ... .... . .. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... •... P. Bbodradada ... U Bbadrapada ... Revati Dhrun, (Pole Stal') h. . .. 12 ... lll ...13 ... 18 ... IS ... 18 ... 14, ... 1-1, •...15 ... t6 ... 17 ...18 ... 18 ... 18 ... 19 ... 20 ... 211 ... 211 ... 0 ... 1 ... 1 "'·.,, '8 2 17' 17 41 8 4B 66 20 llO 10 80 85 4,:l 81 48 66 B 7 16 Note: .A.athe Vernal Equinox is 11ubject to• retrograde motion oCover 60 IOO')nda a yeo.r, t.ablea E. and Ii'. will have to bo prepared from tbo Almanac for the year. Digitized by Google Thiapreservation photocopy was made and hand bound at BookLab, Inc. in compliance with copyright law. The paper, Weyerhaeuser Cougar Opaque Natural, meets the requirements of ANSI/NISO Z39.48-199'Z(Permanence of Paper). Austin 1994 Digitized by Google Digitized by Google Digitized by Google Digitized by Google Digitized by Google Digitized by Google Digitized by Google Digitized by Google -1.11111 3 2044 022 667 257 The borrower must return this item on or before the last date stamped below. H another user places a recall for this item, the borrower will be notified of the need for an earlier return. Non-receipt of overdue notices does not exempt the borrower from overdue fines. Harvard College Widener Library Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-2413 